Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
thetartan.org
@thetartan
April 15, 2013
Volume 107, Issue 24
JFC proposes important bylaw changesThrive at CMU to 
improve wellness
ALVIN MATHEW
Staffwriter
Months after Carnegie 
Mellons stress culture Town 
Hall in January, the university and its students are looking for ways to address stress 
management and wellness on 
campus. Neha Chaurasia, a 
senior biological sciences major, is designing a new StuCo 
class on wellness for incoming ?rst-years.
The course is currently titled Thrive at CMU and has 
received approval from the 
University Education Council 
to seek out course instructors.
In my personal opinion, 
Chaurasia said, if you went 
to the wellness forum about 
the issues CMU students had, 
the number of students who 
came showed something had 
to be done. 
The reasons for the attendees diminishing wellness were numerous, she 
pointed out, and many were 
trying to push it under the 
LAUREN WILLIAMS
Staffwriter
Important changes to the 
Student Body Constitution, 
Student Government Fiscal 
Policy, and Joint Funding 
Committee (JFC) bylaws were 
passed last Thursday after 
being approved by both the 
Graduate Student Assembly 
(GSA) and Student Senate.
The changes clarify many 
?scal processes and are meant 
to increase the transparency 
of the JFC, which is the student-run organization responsible for allocating student activities fee money to Carnegie 
Mellon student organizations. 
Previously, what was required of the JFC and student 
body vice president for ?nance 
(SBVPF) did not necessarily 
align with what was written in 
the bylaws. 
Jon Mark, current SBVPF 
and senior lighting design major, said, Were going to do 
what were supposed to do [at 
?scal close], but youd rather it 
match up with the documents 
as best as it possibly can.
Some of the recent changes 
have been in discussion since 
last year. 
As SBVPF, Mark examined 
the issues and proposed revisions. 
Senior computer science 
major and executive cabinet 
constitutional adviser Stephen Tjader then formally 
wrote the changes in constitutional language. 
The executive committee 
Victoria Espinel speaks about intellectual property concerns
In?ux of university donations continues, now for Scott Hall
JUSTIN MCGOWN 
Online Editor
Victoria Espinel, the U.S. 
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator for the Executive Of?ce of the President, 
gave a talk in Hamburg Hall 
at noon last Thursday as part 
of the Heinz College Convocation open forum series. Titled 
Protecting U.S. Intellectual 
Property: A View from the 
Front Lines, Espinels lecture 
covered how one manages to 
wind up in such an obscure 
yet important position and offered a look at the current issues facing the United States 
in the realm of intellectual 
property enforcement.
Espinels talk was divided 
into two categories: The biography of her professional life, 
and what her department is 
currently engaged in doing. 
In terms of career, she offered 
several key pieces of advice 
to those gathered there. Do 
things that intimidate you, 
Espinel urged students, saying that she would never have 
reached her current position 
if she had not made career 
moves that were not safe. 
Students were also advised to 
?nd their own styles and not 
to worry about being credited 
with work.
If youre building a team, 
Espinel said, hire people 
better than you, people who 
want your job. She argued 
that people after your job will 
be motivated to prove themselves, meanwhile making you 
look good so that there will be 
a job for you to move on to.
Those strategies served Espinel well as she made her way 
from law school to law school, 
going from a job as a securities 
lawyer to working in telecommunications law. Ultimately, 
Espinel found herself as an expert on copyright issues after 
she registered for a semester 
at a school in London where 
the professor she intended to 
take classes with was on sabbatical. Espinel was appointed 
to her current position in September of 2009 by President 
Obama, and was con?rmed by 
congress shortly after.
Protection of intellectual property is critical to our 
economy, Espinel said, citing 
former chairman of the Federal Reserve Alan Greenspans 
claim that the U.S. economy is 
currently based more on conceptual goods as opposed to 
physical goods. On a related 
note, she argued that the trade 
de?cit is not quite so dire as it 
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor
Student Senate voted on the revisions to the allocation of the student activities fee as part of an effort to clarify the current ?scal process.  
Photo illustration by Greg Hanneman/Staff Photographer
Photo courtesy of sonicscoop.com
Victoria Espinel spoke as part of the Heinz College convocation lecture series. 
See WELLNESS, A4
See JFC, A3
See ESPINEL, A3
See DONATIONS, A3
Annette Ko/Art Editor
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Assistant News Editor
Carnegie Mellons Wilton 
E. Scott Institute for Energy 
Innovation was recently the 
bene?ciary of a $30 million 
donation from the Richard 
King Mellon Foundation. 
This donation comes as one 
in a series of recent large donations the university has received to sponsor the creation 
or maintenance of crucial educational departments. 
These contributions also 
follow the fundraising by the 
Inspire Innovation initiative, 
which raised over $1 billion, 
exceeding its fundraising goal 
for the university.
The Inspire Innovation 
campaign was intended, according to website, to increase the power and reach of 
Carnegie Mellon. In practical 
terms, this means building our 
endowment.
The money raised is meant 
to be split among several categories, including Retaining 
and Enhancing a World-Class 
Faculty, Supporting a New 
Generation of Student Innovators, Sustaining a Foundation of Excellence, and 
Enhancing an Innovative Environment.
Carnegie Mellons information website about the 
endowment describes it as a 
collection of individual funds 
established by donors and 
managed by the university as 
a set of pooled assets.
 Practically, this means that 
the endowment is not a lump 
sum that the university can allocate as needed, but is rather 
a set of many funds, coming 
from various donors, meant 
to achieve speci?c philanthropic goals. The endowment 
is meant to be self-propelled, 
accorings to the website.  
Invested wisely, endowment principal grows while 
the income it generates makes 
possible the investments necessary to maintain excellence 
and to seize opportunities that 
might otherwise go elsewhere 
or be lost entirely.
According to their website, the Richard King Mellon Foundation  created in 
1947 by Richard King Mellon, 
president of Mellon Bank  
is a trust with assets of over 
$1.9 billion used for various 
economic, philanthropic, and 
environmentally bene?cial 
projects. 
This donation has been allocated to Carnegie Mellons 
efforts to expand its initiatives 
toward energy research, education, and innovation. 
This comes in the wake 
of the announcement of the 
creation of the Scott Institute in September 2012, created to address a range of 
environmental issues and to 
develop more ef?cient energy 
solutions.
The Richard King Mellon 
Foundation donation is the 
largest private foundation 
grant in Carnegie Mellons 
history, breaking the $25 million record set in 2007, also 
by the Richard King Mellon 
Foundation. 
The 2007 donation was 
invested in initiatives in the 
life-sciences ?elds, particularly focusing on research and 
educating future leaders in the 
?eld.
In addition, part of the 
$25 million was used to start 
a Life Sciences Competitiveness Fund, which supported 
the hiring of new faculty, 
construction of new labs, and 
establishment of a President 
Scholars Fund, according to a 
university press release.
Although the recent donation from the Richard King 
Mellon Foundation is the largest private foundation grant 
in the universitys history, the 
largest donation from an individual was from former steel 
executive William S. Dietrich 
II, in the form of a $265 million grant meant to aid in the 
interdisciplinary fusion of liberal arts and technical ?elds 
that characterizes Carnegie 
Mellon. 
As a result, Carnegie Mellons school of Humanities and 
Social Sciences was renamed 
after his mother, Mariana 
Brown Dietrich, in 2011.
Dietrich  who earned his 
Ph.D. from the University of 
Pittsburgh and was on the Pitt 
Board of Trustees  was also 
a longtime Carnegie Mellon 
trustee.
 Dietrichs donation is the 
eighth-largest gift to a university nationally and 14th worldwide.
Dietrich also donated $125 
million to the University of 
Pittsburgh, eclipsing the former highest donation of $41.3 
million in 2007 from Ansys 
founder John Swanson.
Dietrich was president of 
Dietrich Industriesone of 
the largest manufacturers 
of steel framing studs in the 
world from 1968 to 1998  
according to the Pittsburgh 
Post-Gazette. 
Dietrichs gifts to Carnegie 
Mellon and the University of 
Pittsburgh were granted upon 
Midway Map  C8Carnival Calendar  C15Reunions Issue  Section B
Spring Carnival 2013 Preview: Fractured Fairytales

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  April 15, 2013
Corrections & Clari?cations
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, 
please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or 
editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as the 
date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print 
issue and publish it online.
NEWS IN BRIEFSpring Carnival booth building begins
WEATHER
Disturbance
April 5, 2013
At approximately 2:06 
a.m., University Police responded to a call of a possible 
?ght in Doherty Apartments. 
On arrival, of?cers could hear 
furniture slamming and loud 
arguing coming from the 
second ?oor. 
Of?cers located the apartment and determined that no 
physical assaults had taken 
place. All parties were warned 
to cease and desist, and the incident was referred to Student 
Life for follow-up.
Theft
April 5, 2013
University Police responded to the Purnell Center for 
a theft report. A student reported that he had stuck a 
small REI backpack and gym 
bag between a pair of lockers 
at 3:00 p.m. 
When he returned at 6:30 
p.m., someone had stolen the 
backpack, which contained 
his 13-inch Apple MacBook 
Pro. This incident is under investigation.
Underage Drinking
April 5, 2013
At approximately 8:30 
p.m., University Police responded to a report of underage drinking at a party in 
Mudge House. 
The of?cers located the 
party and ?ve students were 
issued citations for underage 
possession and consumption 
of alcoholic beverages. The 
alcohol was seized and destroyed.
Underage Drinking
April 6, 2013
At 12:20 a.m., University 
Police was summoned to a 
residence on the 5100 block 
of Beeler Street to assist Pittsburgh Police in breaking up 
a large underage drinking 
party. 
University Police assisted 
in dispersing the crowd. Pittsburgh Police discovered a keg 
of beer in the basement of 
the house and informed the 
lone remaining resident that 
he and his roommates  all 
Carnegie Mellon students  
would be receiving citations 
for disorderly conduct. 
Underage Drinking
April 6, 2013
At 12:30 a.m., University 
Police responded to Scobell 
House in reference to a complaint of underage drinking at 
a party on the third ?oor. The 
of?cers located the party and 
the persons involved. Three 
Carnegie Mellon students 
were issued citations for underage drinking.
Underage Drinking 
April 6, 2013
At approximately 1:30 
a.m., a University Police of?cer on patrol saw a female 
being assisted by two friends 
that were attempting to get 
her back to her residence at 
West Wing. 
The of?cer investigated 
further and discovered the 
impaired female was under 
the in?uence of alcohol and 
under the age of 21. She was 
cited for underage drinking 
and was released to the care 
of her friends.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Following the large-scale move on event last Friday evening, construction had begun on booths in preparation for Spring Carnival. The 2013 Spring 
Carnival begins Thursday night, and will feature organization booths on Midway as well as buggy races and other events.
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
A team of three Carnegie 
Mellon students earned ?fth 
place in the Mathematical 
Association of Americas 73rd 
William Lowell Putnam Competition, ahead of other top 
schools including Harvard 
and Princeton Universities.
Last December, 4,277 students from 578 universities 
participated in the Putnam 
competition, a mathematics 
competition held for American and Canadian undergraduate students, according 
to a university press release.
 The students were given 
six hours to solve 12 complex 
mathematical problems that 
required the use of creative 
concepts taught in college 
math courses.
One of the three students 
who helped Carnegie Mellon 
achieve its ?fth-place status 
was ?rst-year math major 
Linus Hamilton, who placed 
in the top 10.
The three students on 
the ?fth-place team, inclduing sophomore mathematical sciences majors Michael 
Druggan and Albert Gu are 
Knaster-McWilliams Scholars   a scholarship program 
that allows increased access 
to faculty and early research 
opportunities.
This is the ?rst time in 
Carnegie Mellons history 
that the Putnam team placed 
in the top ?ve for two years 
in a row, said Po-Shen Loh, 
assistant professor of mathematical sciences and the 
teams coach, in a university 
press release. 
Its even more exciting 
that this year, Carnegie Mellon has the second-highest 
number of students with 
scores in the top 500, ahead 
of Harvard and Princeton. 
This re?ects the breadth 
and caliber of talent that 
Carnegie Mellon has developed, and bodes well for our 
universitys trajectory, Loh 
said.
Carnegie Mellons department of mathematical sciences in the Mellon College 
of Science will receive $5,000 
for its ?fth-place award, and 
each team member will receive $200.
CMU students place in Putnam competition
Center for human rights awarded new grant
Carnegie Mellons Center 
for Human Rights Science 
received a $175,000 grant 
from the MacArthur Foundation to investigate how social 
media is changing human 
rights fact-?nding.
An increasingly common 
refrain among new media 
technologists is that it is 
crucial to give people whose 
basic human rights are being 
threatened or denied a way 
to tell the world about their 
predicaments, said Jay Aronson, director of Carnegie 
Mellons Center for Human 
Rights Science, in a university press release.
 As society turns more to 
social media to discover the 
worlds injustices and natural disasters, human rights 
organizations have been 
wary of whether this development is protecting victims 
or disrespecting their privacy.
Carnegie Mellon will be 
able to study the implications of social media on 
human rights with university resources, which include 
machine learning, data mining, statistics, computer science, information systems, 
and policy analysis.
Aronson will head the 
project along with Stephen 
Fienberg, the Maurice Faulk 
University professor of statistics and social science, 
and Daniel Neill, associate 
professor of information systems.
Thrive at CMU courseAcademic Integrity PolicyCampus Life
STUDENT SENATE MEETING MINUTES
FRIDAY
High / Low
60 / 41
SATURDAY
High / Low
49 / 42
SUNDAY
High / Low
54 / 43
TUESDAY
High / Low
73 / 57
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
66 / 60
THURSDAY
High / Low
72 / 59
The wellness course 
StuCo that Student Senate 
is developing for incoming 
students, titled Thrive at 
CMU, recently received approval from the University 
Education Council to ?nd 
instructors for the course. 
The organizers goal is to 
have the syllabus completed by the conclusion of this 
semester. 
Compiled by
BRENT HEARD
Compiled by
NOL UM
Holly Hippensteel, assistant dean of student affairs, spoke to the Senate to 
request endorsement of the 
universitys new academic integrity policy. 
The policy has already 
been endorsed by faculty 
senate, CMU Qatars Student 
Majlis and the Graduate Student Assembly. It will also be 
presented to the presidents 
council. 
A discussion was held on 
the amount of collaboration 
with other students on assignments allowed in this 
new policy, as well as the 
need for students to communicate with faculty members 
about assignment-speci?c 
rules for collaboration.  
Student Senate voted to 
endorse the new academic 
integrity policy.
Special Allocation: SPIRIT
SPIRIT requested $250 
from Student Senate for its 
booth and buggy expenses. 
The organization held an 
event to raise money, but 
scheduled it at the same time 
as Greek Sing, so attendance 
was lower than anticipated. 
Senate chose not to allocate 
the requested amount, and 
voted to allocate $0 to SPIRIT.
Table Sharing
Student Senate declared 
the new table-sharing program in Tazza DOro a success, and is evaluating the 
potential for implementing 
this system in the University Center next semester, 
depending on cost. Table 
sharing was developed to 
remedy the chronic shortage 
of tables in Tazza DOro, and  
the program cost Senate $54 
to implement.
Student Senate discussed developments in 
campus life. The athletic 
photos in the University 
Center have now been 
updated, and details surrounding the gallery crawl 
event were recently ?nalized. This event took students to visit the Aviary, 
Andy Warhol Museum, and 
the Mattress Factory.
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor

---------------------------------------------------

April 15, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
Heinz speaker addresses trade, property
may appear if one takes into 
account that it is offset by a 
trade surplus in services and 
intellectual properties.
The main concern in the 
world of intellectual property enforcement seems to be 
trade secrets. Manufacturing 
processes and technological 
advancements are of critical 
importance to some businesses, but to stay effective in the 
face of globalization it is often 
necessary to share important 
pieces of intellectual property 
in regions where they are at 
risk of being pirated.
However, Espinel stressed 
that the country should be 
supporting companies even 
if they move jobs overseas, but 
they need to do it in a way that 
makes sure that they retain 
their value to the U.S.
While ?elding questions, 
Espinel commented on some 
of the more sensitive issues 
in international copyright 
law. While she acknowledged 
the need for relaxing some of 
the stricter parts of Intellectual Property Law in regards 
to technology transfers with 
developing countries, it is 
important to prevent forced 
technology transfers, [with] 
companies being forced to 
hand over know-how by foreign powers.
Audience reaction to Espinels lecture was positive. 
Masters student in public 
policy and management Adhithi Adhi said, It was nice to 
know what the current administration is doing about trade 
secrets and copyright. Adhi 
appreciated the talk for helping her understand an issue 
she didnt know much about , 
having come from India.
Ian Kloo, a fellow masters 
student in public policy and 
management also enjoyed the 
talk. [Its] not super related 
to my studies but its a hot 
topic. Kloo was also pleased 
with the forum series as a 
whole. In general the Convocations have been pretty good, 
theyve managed to get pretty 
high-level people.
New ?nancial changes pushed forward by JFC
approved the documents and 
presented them to the GSA 
and Student Senate, leading 
to their eventual enactment.
Student Body President 
and senior economics and 
statistics and decision science 
double major Will Weiner 
said, I think the biggest thing 
is open communication between groups, letting them 
know realistically the way 
were funding things.... One 
of the things Jons done best 
is working with groups to 
help them achieve their objectives. [The SBVPF] is there to 
help groups make sure theyre 
spending their money well. 
Hes is not there to tell them 
exactly what to do, but theyre 
there as a resource.
Changes to the student 
body constitution include 
giving the SBVPF the ability 
to place any student government-recognized student organization on ?nancial probation, including organizations 
that are not funded by JFC.
Currently, non-JFC funded 
organizations are not evaluated at ?scal close to determine 
if they are functioning in a ?scally responsible way. 
These organizations can 
then fall into debt, causing 
them to spend reserve JFC 
money, even though they do 
not originally request JFC 
funding.
Regarding this change, 
Weiner said, I think its an 
important move to one, make 
sure activities fee money is being used only for activities fee 
purposes, and then two, any 
time a group is in that level of 
debt. We should take a look to 
make sure theyre being managed properly to help them 
achieve their mission.
Organizations can be 
placed on one of two types of 
probations: supervised probation and controlled probation. 
If an organization goes 
into a debt that is more than 
10 percent of its total budget, 
it is placed on supervised probation.
If an organization has debt 
greater than 25 percent of its 
budget, it is put on controlled 
probation.
 Under controlled probation, an organization must 
have all of its purchases signed 
See JFC, A4
JFC, from A1
ESPINEL, from A1Scott Hall receiveslatest donation gift
his death on Oct. 6, 2011, at 
the age of 73.
Before Dietrichs gift, the 
largest donation from an individual to Carnegie Mellon 
was from David A. Tepper 
and his wife Marlene, from 
whom the Tepper School of 
Business takes its name. 
Tepper was the founder 
of Appaloosa Management, a 
hedge fund created in 1993. 
After earning his B.A. from 
the University of Pittsburgh, 
Tepper received his MBA 
from Carnegie Mellon.
The recent gift from the 
Richard King Mellon Foun-dation is one part of a long 
history of donations to the 
university.
We are deeply grateful 
to the Richard King Mellon 
Foundation for this generous 
gift, President Jared Cohon 
said in a university press release. 
Developing sustainable 
energy solutions is of fundamental importance for 
America and the world, and 
this gift will play a key role 
in helping the university and 
the Scott Institute solve some 
of our most important energy 
challenges, Cohon said.
DONATIONS, from A1
Write for News: 
news@thetartan.org

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  April 15, 2013
JFC funding changes to affect organizations
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor
Student Senate meetings are open to the public and occur every Thursday at 5 p.m. in Margaret Morrison, Room A14.
off by the SBVPF. 
Additionally, the SBVPF 
meets with organizations on 
probation approximately once 
per month.
Organizations placed on 
probation will retain the ability 
to appeal probation to either 
the GSA or Student Senate.
Regarding reactions to this 
change, Mark said, Ive really 
only heard [a few] reactions. 
One, is this increasing the powers of the VP of ?nance? And 
the answer is yes, it is, because 
its basically saying that I can 
now put a group that is not 
funded by the Activities Fee 
on probation. Id rather give 
the VPF the ability to  before 
a group gets to a bad point  
have more proactive activities 
and give developmental help.
Revisions to the student 
government ?scal policy include the addition of a nondegree-seeking activities fee, 
which is the portion of the activities fee that is paid by nondegree-seeking students.
 There are approximately 
eight to 10 non-degree-seeking 
students per year, usually staff 
or community members taking 
one or two classes. 
These students are eligible 
to participate in student activities if they pay the activities 
fee. 
The amended student government ?scal policy states 
that the non-degree-seeking 
activities fee will go directly 
into the 9030 Fund account, 
which is the collection of JFC 
funds from the Student Senate 
and GSA. 
Therefore, the non-degreeseeking activities fee will go directly toward funding student 
organizations.
Additionally, the stipulation 
that student organizations on 
controlled probation can only 
receive 90 percent of their previous years subsidy has been 
removed.
Changes to the Joint Funding Committee bylaws include 
requiring the JFC to set metrics 
prior to reviewing budgets. 
Speci?cally, within two 
weeks after the budget submission deadline, the JFC must approve a list of funding metrics 
by way of majority vote. 
The JFC must adhere to 
these metrics throughout the 
budgeting process, unless 
overruled by a three-fourths 
majority at a JFC meeting. The 
metrics will be released to all 
organizations eligible for JFC 
funding SBVPF-elect and sophomore statistics major Jalen 
Poteat said, At this point, I 
havent heard too much, either 
positive or negative. Im not 
expecting there to be too much 
negative feedback.
I dont think the organizations know a whole ton about 
[the changes]. Id hope 
groups are appreciative of attempts at increased transparency, Weiner said. 
Poteat intends to fully implement the changes Mark has 
made.
A lot of the things Jon 
[changed], I want to follow 
through on and see if they go 
through well.... First semester, 
one thing I really want to do is 
work with [Student Body Vice 
President of Organizations] 
Corinne [Rockoff] and reach 
out to the organizations a little 
bit more... to see how all the 
organizations are doing at the 
beginning.
Mark similarly stated, Had 
I had more time in the fall 
and wasnt focused on the activities fee increase so much, 
I would have spent more time 
helping groups that were on 
probation and provided organizations with even more 
resources.
JFC, from A3Class tries to remedy  CMU stress culture
rug. So we want to help students develop well-roundedness at CMU and enjoy 
their time here.
According to Chaurasia, the development of the 
course is still in the early 
stages. 
Were still working on 
the syllabus, but we sent 
out a survey for anyone in 
the CMU community about 
what they think. In the beginning of the year, were 
doing introductions to the 
campus and community, 
whether its academic or extracurricular  and about 
understanding Pittsburgh, 
like with buses, Shadyside, 
and more opportunities 
that are available. We want 
people to know about what 
they have here. Toward 
midterms, the course will 
discuss ?nding resources 
and how to solve potential 
problems while here, she 
said.
Chaurasia added, Well 
be piloting the course next 
year, and there will only be 
four sections. Classes will 
be small and offer students 
advice about what they can 
do, whether it is academic 
or extracurricular. 
When Chaurasia was 
initially planning for what 
would become Thrive at 
CMU, she envisioned it 
either as a StuCo or as a 
required course similar to 
Computing @ Carnegie 
Mellon (C@CM). 
She even feels there is 
a possibility that it can one 
day replace or be combined 
with C@CM.
Weve gotten the impression from a variety of 
Student Senators that [C@
CM] may not be a useful 
class, so it may be better 
to have it as a two-week or 
online summer course. But 
its a very long process, and 
hopefully it will become a 
mandatory course next semester, the semester after, 
or at some point, Chaurasia said.
In favor of the idea is 
Deepak Gopalakrishnan, a 
?rst-year mechanical engineering major.
Well, its de?nitely an 
interesting topic that would 
bene?t students. And if it 
does eventually replace 
C@CM, I wouldnt mind, 
because I thought C@CM 
was kind of pointless, he 
said. 
First-year mechanical 
engineering major Nick 
Gray, on the other hand, 
does not like the idea of having a wellness class  nor 
does he favor C@CM. I feel 
that both courses are unnecessary for freshmen. Its 
something you just have to 
develop as an ability in high 
school or on your own, he 
said. Although its nice to 
see CMU care about its students and what they value, 
its important for freshmen 
to understand and learn 
some of these things on 
their own.
There have also been 
events and competitions to 
address stress culture, including last Januarys Town 
Hall. According to a recent 
university press release, 
The nonpro?t organization 
LEAD Pittsburgh has developed an online program 
designed to help college 
students navigate the challenges of their often stressful environment without 
succumbing to depression 
or other behavioral health 
disorders. Just last week, 
an awards ceremony acknowledged the winners of 
a LEAD essay contest.
Chaurasia aims to have 
Thrive at CMU offered to 
?rst-years in fall 2014.
WELLNESS, from A1

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

A6  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  April 15, 2013
Researcher helps improve algorithm for robotic surgeons
RAGHUNANDAN AVULA
Staffwriter
Even the most experienced 
and skilled surgeons ?nd surgery to be an arduous and 
stressful task. The emergence 
of medical robots that assist 
surgeons has allowed many 
surgeries to become signi?-
cantly safer and more effective. However, before these 
robots can be utilized in the 
?eld, engineers must be certain that the robot will react 
accordingly in every possible 
situation that may arise during a surgery. Computer scientists at Carnegie Mellon 
teamed up with physicists and 
engineers from Johns Hopkins 
University to develop a universal method of using logical 
reasoning to identify bugs in 
medical robots and make sure 
they perform their required 
functions successfully.
Researcher Yanni Kouskoulas and his team at the Applied 
Physics Laboratory at Johns 
Hopkins University initially 
designed a medical robot that 
would aid a surgeon in preforming a surgical procedure  
at the base of the skull. During 
the surgery, it is very important for a surgeon to ensure 
that he or she doesnt accidentally damage nearby parts of 
the body. This can pose a larger problem when the surgeon 
fails to have a full view of the 
surgical space.
To ensure the safety of the 
patient, the doctor can use 
imaging techniques such as 
Magnetic Resonance Imaging  
(MRI) or Computed Tomomgraphy (CT) scans to establish 
the boundaries of the surgical 
space. The robot recognizes 
these boundaries and aids surgeons by applying resistance 
to their movement as they get 
closer to the edges. It also prevents doctors from leaving the 
surgical space altogether. 
While testing the robot on 
cadavers, Kouskoulas and his 
team realized that the robot 
exhibited unde?ned behavior 
in some rare cases. Confused 
about the source of their problem, Kouskoulas and his team 
reached out to Andr Platzer, 
a professor of computer science at Carnegie Mellon, to 
help them evaluate their system and determine where they 
were going wrong.
Platzer has been actively 
working on developing tools 
to verify the correctness of 
cyber-physical systems, which 
combine computation and 
physical movements. Normal 
proofs in computer science 
are not suf?cient because they 
do not account for the in?nite 
possible states of a physical 
application. In the past few 
years, his tools have successfully veri?ed and increased 
the safety of railway control 
systems and air traf?c control 
systems.
The veri?cation tool, 
known as KeYmaeraD, is a 
mathematical proof that aims 
to systematically study a system and prove that a condition 
always holds true. The proof 
examines the various states of 
the robot system and ensures 
that the tools always remain 
within established boundaries. In many different cases, 
the proof works automatically. 
However, when the proof fails, 
the tool presents a counterexample by highlighting the 
speci?c situation where the 
system fails. 
Soon after Platzer and 
Kouskoulas met and began 
to establish their proof, they 
highlighted a signi?cant problem in the system: The robot 
checked a movement in relation to each of the edges of 
the surgical space one by one 
and initiated resistance if the 
movement was too close to 
the boundary. However, in the 
process of moving to the next 
boundary, the robot would 
undo the resistance that was 
just established in order to 
make a new one.
After identifying a problem, changing an established 
design can be a challenging 
process: Kouskoulas and his 
team faced the challenge, 
making many modi?cations 
to their system based on the 
results of Platzers veri?cation 
tool. They continued testing 
until every single state could 
be proven. The newly designed system did not exhibit 
unexpected behavior during 
testing on cadavers.
Platzer explained that using a veri?cation tool can enhance the testing process because it immediately identi?es 
where a system might fail. In 
addition, complications during surgery can be unexpected 
and it is impossible to test the 
in?nite states of the system on 
a cadaver. With such a tool, 
the robots engineers can be 
sure that the robot will always 
exhibit the correct outcome 
during a surgery, ensuring the 
safety of the patient.
The principles used to test 
and prove the skull-based surgery system can be applied to a 
variety of surgical robot models all based on establishing 
boundaries and ensuring that 
a doctor remains within the 
surgical space. Platzer hopes 
that formal veri?cation tools 
will help engineers design 
safer medical robots by identifying the various situations 
where the system might fail 
before being used  in surgery. 
LACHLAN LANCASTER
Junior Staffwriter
Anyone who has taken a 
college-level course in biology 
is familiar with the strange 
black-and-white pictures of 
what most people would think 
are impossibly small bacteria. 
Up until the 1950s and the invention of the scanning electron microscope (SEM), they 
were.
Ever since then, biologists 
have had great insight into the 
realm of the incredibly small, 
allowing scientists to analyze 
surfaces and do research in 
several different ?elds that 
were never have thought possible. The SEM has allowed 
them to have new insight into 
the structure of cellular-level 
biological structures as well 
as analyze the structures of 
materials applied in engineering.
The basis of this technology lies behind the fact that 
SEMs use precisely controlled 
electrons instead of light to 
look at samples.
According to the Radiological and Environmental 
Management website at Purdue University, the electrons 
are ?rst shot from an electron 
gun at the top of the apparatus; these initial electrons are 
of very random energy and do 
not have very much control. 
These electrons then pass 
through many different energetic potential differences and 
magnetic lenses that slowly 
re?ne the speed and direction 
of the electrons. This eventually translates to controlling 
the area and resolution of 
the sample. For example, if 
the electrons are distributed 
over a very small range and 
are very highly concentrated, 
the resolution of the picture 
will be very high. This allows 
researchers to see samples at 
up to 500,000 times magni?cation  about 250 times 
stronger than the strongest 
light microscopes.
The way we view the image, however, is very different 
than a normal microscope. A 
light microscope simply magni?es and enhances the light 
re?ected off a sample by a 
lamp through an optical lens. 
In the end, it is still the human  
eye, or in some cases a camera, that is doing the viewing of the sample. Since the 
SEM uses electrons to probe 
the sample, we cant see anything visually. However, we 
can moniter the electrons interactions within the sample.
To understand this interaction, its important to comprehend how the samples are 
prepared. Because the area of 
observation in the SEM is a 
vacuum  ensuring that the 
electrons dont interact with 
anything else before the sample  biological and otherwise fragile samples must be 
carefully dried so that they do 
not collapse. These and other 
samples that are nonconductive are then put in a special 
machine that coats the entire 
sample in a thin layer of gold. 
This allows for all samples to 
be conductive so that they 
may interact with the electrons ?red at them.
The main method of this 
interaction is a process called 
Compton Scattering. In this 
process, electrons collide with 
atoms and other electrons 
in the conductive material. 
When the electrons do this 
they either accelerate around 
the collision and move off in 
a different direction, scatter 
backward, or move relatively 
easily through the sample 
(this last possibility is very 
unlikely). 
Due to the properties of 
accelerated electromagnetic 
charge, the electrons that 
collide then emit high-energy photons or X-rays. These 
X-rays, along with the secondary electrons and backscattered electrons, are what 
the computer is able to detect. Many different detectors 
within the machine that surround the sample then analyze all of the different kinds 
of debris. These detectors 
then send the gathered data 
to a computer, which interprets it and creates an image, 
giving  insight into the micromicroscopic world.
Study looks at the brain to determine music preferences
A recent study explained 
what processes in the brain 
shape peoples taste in music, 
and also helped predict what 
types of music they will buy. 
Participants of the study underwent Functional Magnetic 
Resonance Imaging (fMRI) 
while they listened to 60 new 
pieces of music and reported 
how much they would be willing to pay for each. The results 
of the study revealed that the 
nucleus accumbens, the region of the brain that forms 
expectations as to what may 
be pleasing to an individual, 
determines whether a piece of 
music is pleasing or not.
Depending on how pleasing the listener deems the music, the nucleus accumbens 
interacts with the auditory 
cortex, the area of the brain 
that stores information on the 
sounds an individual hears. 
Though everyone experiences the same brain processes 
when choosing music, each 
person has different musical 
tastes because everyone has 
a uniquely shaped auditory 
cortex. The researchers also 
said that musical preferences 
are partially shaped by an individuals past experiences.
Source: Science Daily  
Researchers study addictiveness of potato chips
A research team at University of Erlangen-Nuremberg 
in Germany performed a 
study on rats that revealed 
likely causes as to why potato chips seem to be more 
addictive than other foods. 
In the study, rats were given 
choices between their standard animal chow and three 
other types of food, including 
potato chips. Although they 
ate relatively equal amounts 
of each, they pursued the potato chips more enthusiastically. Manganese-Enhanced 
Magnetic Resonance Imaging 
(MEMRI), which was used to 
map the rats brains, showed 
that the reward and addiction 
centers of the brain were most 
active when eating the potato 
chips.
These results showed that 
while fat and carbohydrates 
were a partial explanation for 
this, there had to have been 
another factor, as the rats 
animal chow also contained 
these ingredients. If scientists 
can ?nd the molecular ingredient that makes chips so 
pleasing, healthy but less desirable foods could be injected 
with this ingredient to make 
them more appealing. However, there has been no proof 
yet as to how this can be done.
Source: Science Daily
Magic mushrooms might help treat depressed patients
David Nutt, Professor at 
Imperial College London and 
president of the British neuroscience association, has recently been given 500,000 to 
conduct a clinical trial regarding the uses of psychedelic 
mushrooms  commonly 
known as magic mushrooms 
or  shrooms  to cure depression. Nutt claims that 
psilocybin, an ingredient in 
nearly 200 species of psychedelic mushrooms, can turn 
down areas of the brain that 
are overactive in depressed 
individuals. 
A depressed individual 
would need an amount of 
psilocybin equivalent to ?ve 
psychedelic mushrooms. 
Nutts study would involve 60 
patients and would use a synthetically manufactured version of the ingredient. At this 
time, however, current drug 
laws and restrictions make it 
dif?cult for Nutt to gain access 
to psychedelic mushrooms. In 
addition, very few hospitals 
are licensed to use the drug, 
so even if the study were to 
be successful in showing that 
psychedelic mushrooms assisted depressed individuals, 
it would be dif?cult to bring 
about widespread use of the 
treatment.
Source: The Telegraph  
SCITECH BRIEFS
Scientists ?nd remains of dinosaur embryos
An international research 
team lead by Robert Reisz of 
the University of Toronto Mississauga in Canada recently 
discovered some of the oldest 
dinosaur embryo fossils ever 
found. The fossils, roughly 
190 million years old, were 
discovered in southwest China. The remains belonged to 
the Lufengosaurus, a species 
of dinosaur that would have 
grown to 30 feet in height. 
The fossils were preserved at 
different stages in the development process. Analysis of 
the remains, along with information about fully-developed 
dinosaurs of the same species, 
revealed that this species developed quickly in the embryo 
stage and after hatching, and 
that the embryos discovered 
were killed by a ?ood.
Source: BBC
Scientists make transparent brains for easier study
Scientists at Stanford University have created an innovative method to study the 
brain: By replacing the fatty 
lipid membranes surrounding cells with an acrylamide 
mesh, they effectively developed a way to make brain 
tissue transparent. While lipids scatter light, acrylamide 
mesh does not  yet it still 
keeps the molecules in place. 
This method allows researchers to study the inside of the 
brain without cutting it into 
slices. This is a valuable advancement because it does 
not require chopping up axons, which scientists were 
unable to study before. While 
the method was developed in 
mouse brains, the team has 
also tested it on post-mortem 
human brain tissue. 
Source: Wired
Amputee receives iPhone-controlled bionic hand 
Jason Koger, a 34-yearold man who has been living 
with amputated hands for ?ve 
years, is the ?rst recipient of a 
bionic hand controlled by an 
iPhone app. The i-limb ultra 
revolution, created by U.K. 
company Touch Bionics, is 
said to be the closest product 
to an actual human hand. It 
offers unparalleled ?exibility 
and has individually powered 
?ngers. 
The iPhone control app 
includes auto-grip features, 
preset grip patterns for speci?c objects, and individually 
customized grip patterns, that 
allow for more functionality 
than traditional prosthetic 
devices.
Source: CNN
Compiled By
SONIA KATHARANI-KHAN
Michael Setzer/SciTech Editor
Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons 
Scanning electron microscopes use electrons to view microscopic molecules. Above is an SEM image of a 
blood sample.
HOW THINGS WORKSEMs reveal once-hidden microscopic universe

---------------------------------------------------

April 15, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A7
CMU receives funding to improve 3-D printing technologies
BROOKE KUEI
Assistant SciTech Editor
Imagine if you had a magical box that, with the click of 
a button, could make whatever you wanted. With the 
advancements in 3-D printing, 
this idea is not as far fetched as 
it might seem.
In 2012, President Obama 
announced the creation of the 
National Network for Manufacturing and Innovation 
(NNMI), a proposal to create 
institutes across the nation, 
each focusing on an advanced 
method of manufacturing and 
consisting of a collaboration 
between universities, companies, and the government. The 
purpose of this initiative is to 
create new jobs, strengthen 
national security, and spark 
the kind of innovation that 
drives economic success.
Carnegie Mellon is a member of the National Additive 
Manufacturing Innovation Institute (NAMII), the pilot institute for NNMI that focuses on 
the method of additive manufacturing and is run by the 
National Center for Defense 
Manufacturing and Machining (NCDMM). NAMII was 
recently awarded $30 million 
from the Department of Defense, the Department of Energy, NASA, the National Science Foundation (NSF), and 
the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). 
The Institute consists of ?ve 
universities, ?ve companies, 
and two national laboratories. 
It is centered in Youngstown, 
Ohio.
Additive manufacturing, 
more commonly known as 
3-D printing, is a method of 
manufacturing products that 
involves adding material to 
make something, as opposed 
to cutting or drilling material 
away. Certain types of software allow one to draw solid 
models with speci?ed shape, 
size, and materials and encode all this information in 
a digital form. A 3-D printer 
will convert this information 
into slices and build the object 
layer by layer. 
3-D printers have a distinctive look. According to 
electrical and computer engineering professor Gary Fedder, who leads the schools 
efforts in NAMII, The types 
of machines that make it kind 
of look like a large microwave 
oven, as opposed to conventional machinery, which looks 
more industrial.
There are two popular 
methods of 3-D printing: 
One is extrusion and involves 
squeezing material out like 
squeezing toothpaste out of a 
tube, Fedder said. Instead of 
toothpaste, however, the 3-D 
printer squeezes out polymer 
in tiny beads that are controlled by a computer. As a 2-D 
pattern of polymer is squeezed 
out, light is shone onto it to 
harden the layer. This process 
is repeated layer by layer until 
a 3-D object is created.
The second method is 
called laser sintering. Instead 
of squeezing out material, 
this method uses what Fedder refers to as a bed of 
powder spread out in an even, 
?at sheet. This powder can 
be plastic, Fedder said, But 
what people are excited about 
is metal powder, like titanium powder. The powder is 
spread out in a ?at sheet, and 
then the computer uses a laser 
to melt the powder into the 
desired shape. After each layer is created, the powder bed 
is lowered and a new layer of 
material is applied. This process continues repeatedly until the 3-D product is created.
There are two NAMII projects with which Carnegie Mellon is involved. The ?rst, led 
by mechanical engineering 
professor Jack Beuth, involves 
the quality of additive manufacturing. The problem is for 
things like aerospace, Fedder 
said. We dont know if the 
part made is really going to 
be strong enough to put in an 
aircraft. If you press print and 
make 100 parts, is there one 
out of that 100 that will fail? 
That wouldnt be acceptable 
on an airplane. So those types 
of in-depth issues are what 
people are researching.
The second project is led 
by Pennsylvania State University and involves monitoring 
the additive manufacturing 
process with thermal imaging. The purpose of this project is to determine the impact 
of heat on the 3-D printing 
process. Carnegie Mellon has 
contributed to this project by 
developing process-mapping 
technologies. These technologies take thermal images of 
the layers as they are made so 
that researchers can analyze 
the materials microstructure.
Additive manufacturing 
is more useful in some ?elds 
than in others, and is particularly bene?cial for biomedical engineering and aviation. 
Within biomedical engineering, 3-D printing can be used 
to make customized biological 
implants. 3-D printing is also 
very relevant for developing 
aviation technology because 
the layer-by-layer process allows intricate spider web-like 
designs to be built. This type 
of design is especially useful 
for aviation because it makes 
metal objects much lighter. 
The current products manufactured using 3-D printing 
are rather speci?c, but as the 
process improves, 3-D printers 
may soon become as common 
a device in everyday homes as 
a regular laser printer.
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor
Electrical and computer engineering professor Gary Fedder is leading Carnegie Mellons efforts in the National 
Additive Manufacturing Innovation Institute, which aims to improve 3-D printing technologies. 
Courtesy of Creative Tools via Flickr
3-D printing can produce a variety of objects from plastic, such as these 
thimbles.

---------------------------------------------------

A8  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  April 15, 2013
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
Local institutions bene?t citys surrounding business
Disrespect for public servants death is contemptible
Three decades ago, Jimmy Zhu 
came to Carnegie Mellon University 
from China to study in the United 
States. Today, he is a professor at 
Carnegie Mellon University and 
is helping to establish a graduate 
school in China  the Joint Institute of Engineering at Sun Yat-sen 
University. Carnegie Mellon is hiring 
employees for the Chinese university 
and is exporting much of its curriculum to the school.
Carnegie Mellon University is not 
the only university attempting to establish universities or partnerships 
in China. 
The University of Pittsburgh is 
developing an undergraduate engineering program at Chinas Sichuan 
University that is estimated to enroll 
students by 2014. The University 
of Michigan, New York University, 
and Duke University are also forming partnerships with universities in 
China.
University collaborations across 
borders make clear how small the 
world is. The Tartan commends 
Carnegie Mellon University and Jimmy Zhu for their efforts to introduce 
curriculums and institutions that 
could both give Chinese students advantages in the global marketplace 
and universities a more prominent 
standing internationally.
This trend of partnering with foreign universities establishes invaluable global connections. As the of?-
cials at the University of Pittsburgh 
and Carnegie Mellon hope, the universitys involvement in China could 
create pathways for business partnerships on a global scale.
According to Trib Total Media, 
Guangzhou, the area where Sun 
Yat-sen University is located, is considered a major enterprise zone in 
southern China but does not have 
its own engineering program. By 
partnering with Sun Yat-sen University to develop an engineering program, Carnegie Mellon University is 
introducing education that may bene?t this areas citizens and, in turn, 
make them more willing to establish 
connections with the university.
By decreasing the gap between 
countries and increasing collaborative efforts, universities create more 
opportunities to provide students 
with educations that could bene?t 
the global marketplace for both Chinese and American students.
Under30CEO.com, a website 
geared to young business leaders, recently ranked Pittsburgh as the tenth 
medium-sized city young entrepreneurs. 
The environment to inspire 
growth and small business development exists in the city for numerous 
reasons, one being that Pittsburgh 
is home to Carnegie Mellon, the 
University of Pittsburgh, and other 
prominent colleges and universities.
Focusing on small businesses and 
enabling passionate people to create 
jobs has made Pittsburgh more attractive to future entrepreneurs and 
has also rede?ned the citys identity. 
In the early 1980s, Pittsburgh struggled economically after the collapse 
of the steel industry, and a mass 
exodus of people looked for employment elsewhere. 
In recent years, though, Carnegie 
Mellons focus on computer science, 
robotics, and technology  as well 
as research done by the University 
of Pittsburgh Medical Center  has 
helped Pittsburgh establish an identity of innovation and research. 
Pittsburgh is also becoming a 
Hollywood hotspot, as evidenced 
by The Dark Knight Rises and other 
blockbusters like The Perks of Being 
a Wall?ower. 
More importantly, the growth of 
these ?elds brings more world-class 
talent to the city. By encouraging 
gifted individuals and teams to develop their ventures in its prestigious 
universities, Pittsburgh offers a sustainable path for economic growth 
that other Midwest cities lack.
According to the Pittsburgh PostGazette, the McCune Foundation has 
given a $7 million grant to Carnegie 
Mellon to combine Project Olympus 
and the Donald H. Jones Center for 
Entrepreneurship, two of the universitys prominent startup initiatives.
Endeavors such as these are vital 
to Pittsburghs continued success. 
Carnegie Mellon and its students 
should be proud that their talents 
are being recognized and rewarded 
by others.
Despite the frequent complaints 
about the weather, Pittsburgh is 
a wonderful city: In recent years, 
its taken the top spot in numerous 
Most Livable City in the U.S. reports. 
The incentive for people to live 
here is only increasing thanks to 
measures such as the McCune grant 
and the prominence of Carnegie 
Mellon. Pittsburgh provides wonderful resources for future leaders and 
has the foundations to build an even 
brighter future.
Annette Ko/Art Editor
The responses of many citizens 
to former Prime Minister Margaret 
Thatchers death have been disgraceful. Thatcher, who suffered from dementia for many years, died at 87 of 
a stroke on April 8. When news of her 
death hit the British news, it caused 
a variety of reactions, some of which 
were highly negative, such as public 
burnings of Thatchers picture, as 
well as street parties all across the 
United Kingdom. Ding Dong! The 
Witch is Dead  from The Wizard of 
Oz reached 10th place in U.K. charts 
within two days of Thatchers death, 
according to The Independent.
Thatcher was a controversial ?gure. Her death does not dismiss the 
problems of her time in of?ce, nor 
should it prevent discussion of her 
strengths and weaknesses as a leader. However, burning her picture and 
dancing in the streets after her death 
is disrespectful to the public servant, 
no matter how controversial her policies were.
Celebrating anyones death is 
questionable even in the most extreme of situations. Thatcher was a 
severely unpopular leader in some 
parts of the United Kingdom, due to 
a variety of legislation she instituted, 
including blocks on union power and 
the privatization of heavy industry. 
Her political and economic policy of 
monetarism, privatization, and selfhelp, known as Thatcherism, did not 
endear her to all of the United Kingdom, as it led to high unemployment 
and ?nancial inequality.
Despite many peoples intense 
feelings about her, Thatcher was a 
human being, and celebrating her 
death is morally problematic. Many 
reactions to her death  like burning her picture and equating her to 
a witch  are personal attacks on 
Thatcher, not criticisms of her policies. While rejoicing in Thatchers 
absence from politics is acceptable, 
celebrating her death is not a justi?able way to criticize her policies.
Thatcher was neither an economic 
savior nor a miserly dictator; she was 
loved and hated in Britain with equal 
passion.
Attacking leaders in a personal way does not lead to change; 
Thatcher was the face of her policies. 
But playing Ding Dong! The Witch 
is Dead on repeat does not change 
conservative U.K. policies. Passion 
has an extremely important place in 
politics, but it must be properly directed  at policies, not public servants   to be useful.
University collaborations bene?t global marketplace
MOGAN RAMESH
Junior Staffwriter
As an exchange student from 
Germany at Carnegie Mellon, I have 
scrutinized the education systems  
of American and Germany; I became 
curious to know if there are ?elds in 
which the problems of both countries are similar. 
Indeed, on both sides of the 
Atlantic, people have issues with 
grade in?ation and allocating university funds to where they are most 
needed.
Often, grades given in both 
countries do not accurately re?ect 
a students academic performance. 
It is not just American schools that 
make their students look better by 
refraining from giving bad grades; 
German universities are guilty as 
well. According to one of the largest 
German newspapers, Sddeutsche 
Zeitung, there are certain subjects 
that consistently favor good grades. 
Natural sciences, while allegedly 
dif?cult subjects, yield very high 
grades. In a study conducted by the 
German Science Council, biology 
majors were found to only have a 2 
percent chance of graduating with 
anything less than a B-. It is unlikely 
that this trend is only due to high 
dropout rates, which are a product 
of the effort to let only the best students graduate. I cannot help but 
think that a student could earn a B 
today with the same amount of work 
that would have earned him or her a 
C 30 years ago.
Furthermore, different educational institutions seem to use different scales in grading. The council 
found that German majors from the 
University of Giessen had a GPA of 
1.6 as opposed to students from the 
Humboldt-University Berlin, who 
scored a 2.2, with 1.0 and 4.0 being the highest and lowest grades, 
respectively. 
According to Sddeutsche Zeitung, experts have recognized the 
need for a more accurate standardized grading system, making graduates comparable. Like the U.S., my 
home country has a strong federalist tendency and there are no common standards of what students 
must know after completing their 
degrees. 
This ambition might sound 
strange to those in America, where 
the distinction between elite institutions like Harvard University and 
average state colleges is striking. In 
Germany, however, most universities are public and are therefore 
responsible for teaching the same 
materials. 
While it makes sense for the German system to strive toward more 
equality, it would not make sense for 
the U.S. to adapt the same behavior, as its private universities are the 
beacon of the world already.
After studying at Carnegie Mellon for two semesters, Ive become 
accustomed to the fact that some 
exams that are impossible to fail. 
Still, it was rather surprising to 
learn that it has not always been 
like this. According to The Economist, 43 percent of all grades given 
at universities are As. This number 
is a startling 28 percent higher than 
in 1960. While this is not as drastic as monetary in?ation over the 
same period, it is fair to talk about 
a creeping grade in?ation that can 
only be detrimental to the quality in 
higher learning. As the grading scale 
is limited, students may eventually 
hit a saturation point, meaning that 
the average GPA may approach 4.0. 
This similarity among academics 
could reduce the amount of information that can be concluded from 
grades. Then, college education becomes a prerequisite for a white-collar job and the highest paying jobs 
will require ridiculously impressive 
achievements, such as founding a 
nonpro?t organization before the 
age of 20.
Germany and the U.S. both 
struggle to add more value to education per dollar spent. In Germany, 
the government favors some universities by giving them extra research grants. The German Science 
Council plays a major role here, 
deciding which of the many institutions deserves to become part of 
the Initiative for Excellence. Unfortunately, undergraduate equipment 
remains in a deplorable condition 
as most government grants are directed toward high-level laboratory 
equipment.
Two efforts recently occurred to 
counteract this tendency. In 2011, 
the ministry for education started 
the Pact for Teaching Quality, dividing 400 million euros among 102 
universities. What seems like a small 
amount of distributed funds is all 
the government can afford. 
Additionally, a few professors 
have become more aware of the 
chronically underfunded teaching 
sector, and have started a grassroots 
movement themselves, according to 
German newspaper Die Zeit. Part of 
the movements efforts include offering workshops for professors to 
show that giving a lecture is more 
than just skipping through PowerPoint slides. Individual efforts like 
these will constitute an important 
component in striving toward a 
brighter future.
While they are not underfunded, 
American universities struggle to 
make their invested money have an 
impact. According to the National 
Center for Education Statistics, the 
U.S. spends a higher percentage of 
its GDP on education than any other country in the world. However, 
America still ?nds itself outside the 
top 10 when it comes to the percentage of citizens with a college degree, according to The Economist. 
The U.S. only places 15th in this 
category. 
Even if a student completes his  
or her four-year degree  and only 
60 percent of them do  his or her 
debt will accumalte over the years to 
an average of $26,000, says the Institute for College Access & Success. 
That, coupled with the fact that college education does not guarantee 
a well-paid job nowadays, means 
young people could soon be looking 
for other educational options.
In conclusion, similar problems 
in higher education emerge in both 
Germany and the United States. It 
seems like both systems are stuck in 
a vicious cycle of struggling to improve the learning experience and 
of making graduates more suitable 
for the labor market today. Governments and university of?cials prefer 
taking shortcuts in order to meet 
todays requirements rather than 
address the root causes of the problems. However, giving every graduate exceptional grades is likely to 
back?re in the near future. 
In order to keep the high education standard, we have to re-evaluate our grading standards and 
wisely spend money on causes that 
bring us closer to our goal of educating citizens to shape the world of 
tomorrow.
This article is the third and ?nal in a 
series of articles detailing the realizations of an exchange student studying 
at Carnegie Mellon.
Universities in U.S. and Germany share problems
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Stacey Chin, Greg 
Hanneman, Jackson Lane, Daniel Tkacik, Alan 
Vangpat
COPY
Swathi Anand, Francesca Begos, Sawsan 
Boutemine, Matt Brown, Nivedita Chopra, Ellie 
Erlich, Blaine Greenberg, Jordyn Greenberg,  
Chris Han, Satvika Neti, Joey Peiser, Sage Po, 
Taylor Rawley
ADVERTISING
Kyle Henson, Gretchen Tan
JENNIFER COLOMA *
Publisher
JOSH SMITH *
Editor-in-Chief
BRADEN KELNER 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN
Copy Manager
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Online Editor
CHLOE THOMPSON
Personnel Manager
BRENT HEARD *
News Co-Editor
KELSEY SCOTT *
Operations Manager
NOL UM
News Co-Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
SciTech Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Pillbox Editor
KAIRAVI CHAHAL
Comics Editor
KATE GROSCHNER
Photo Editor
ANNETTE KO
Art Editor
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
LINDA JU
Advertising Manager
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
JONATHAN LEUNG
Asst. Photo Editor
WILLIAM PARK
Asst. Forum Editor
BONITA LEUNG
Asst. Copy Manager
JULIA YANG
Asst. Copy Manager
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Asst. News Editor
BROOKE KUEI
Asst. SciTech Editor
LAURA SCHERB
Asst. Pillbox Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Contributing Editor
ALLISON COSBY *
Contributing Editor
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Contributing Editor
CHRISTA HESTER
Contributing Editor
ANNA WALSH
Contributing Editor
Editorial Staff
 2013 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107* Denotes executive committee member
StaffEditorial Board
Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
April 15, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A9
Compiled by Kate Groschner
The Tartan cant wait to see the Carnival booths. So we asked,
Whats your favorite fairy tale?
Annette Ko/Art Editor
WILLIAM PARK
Walking around last week, I discovered the solution to the university's stress culture: relocating campus 
1,000 miles south.
After all, this is the tale of two 
campuses  the icy Carnegie Mellon where students stay inside the 
lonely library and a mild Carnegie 
Mellon where young students gather outside for no other reason than 
that it feels good. Judging from the 
way students relaxed on the Cut not 
worrying about their assignments 
or mid-terms last week, maybe good 
weather is the best therapy.
All kidding aside, its somewhat 
discomforting how happiness and its 
counterpart can be so circumstantial. 
Some people are only happy in a relationship. A dif?cult test can ruin a 
weekend. The weather can make or 
break ones day.
In some cases, circumstantial happiness can be extreme, like for those 
who have seasonal affective disorder 
(SAD)  a disorder recognized by 
the American Psychiatric Association and characterized by depression 
symptoms that occur during seasonal 
changes.
Realizing how much happiness 
depends on external circumstances, I 
have thought about how unfortunate 
it is and what I can do to change it  
how I can maintain a consistent emotional state unaffected by the worst 
Pittsburgh weather and the highest 
levels of workload. People diagnosed 
with SAD can undergo light therapy, 
but I need something else.
Theoretically, I know this kind of 
emotional state is possible. After all, 
there are people who claim happiness is the simple byproduct of living 
a ful?lling life. They are drunk on 
life, if you will. These people never 
have to search for happiness because 
its in everything they do, and their 
emotions dont depend on the people 
around them, external events, or the 
weather. I wish I could be the same.
However, striving for this internal 
peace only makes me more anxious. 
Its hard not to have a bad day when 
you step in a puddle with the shoe 
that has a hole. Realizing that a better person would keep walking while 
I curse my soaked shoe only makes 
me feel inferior and magni?es the 
problem of a wet shoe.
On the other hand, maybe its 
okay for our emotions to be circumstantial. Its okay to have bad days.
Part of what made the weather 
last week so beautiful was just how 
dreadful winter was. The worst 
friends make you appreciate the 
good ones. And the busiest weekdays 
make you appreciate the weekends.
I still dont think circumstantial 
happiness is ideal, especially at a 
school with such volatile weather 
and high academic standards, but 
Ive stopped beating myself up over 
trying to maintain a level emotional 
state no matter what. 
I dont like having bad days but 
they make me appreciate the occasion when everything goes right. 
Give me any two days, and Ill immediately pick the one with less clouds 
and the more mild temperatures. 
Circumstantial happiness may not be 
ideal, but there are times when it's 
just ?ne.
William Park (wkp@) is assistant Forum editor for The Tartan.
PSSAs are barriers to true education
KYLE HENSON
As Congress debates an immigration bill that increases border security and creates an amnesty route 
for domestic illegal immigrants, I 
?nd myself wondering, "Why cant 
anyone just come here, ?ll out some 
paperwork and then start paying 
taxes? Why dont we have an open 
immigration policy?"
Asking others these questions, 
Ive found that theres no good answer. Maybe the lack of open immigration policy is just xenophobia 
or a resistance to change or new 
ideas. After all, the anti-immigrant 
mentality can be traced back to the 
Know-Nothing party of the 1860s. 
This mentality isnt a relatively new 
idea in American politics, its just 
not a bene?cial one.
As Republicans are eager to point 
out, immigrants  Latinos in particular  are thought to be generally hardworking, have strong family values, and yearn to have better 
lives for their children, according to 
a study by the Pew Hispanic Center. 
Does this sound familiar? These are 
people just like our ancestors who 
were trying to achieve the American 
Dream. Is there really any good reason why they shouldnt be allowed 
to live here? 
Our country can only stand to 
bene?t, especially from an economic 
perspective, by allowing more lawabiding, motivated, and hardworking citizens into this country.
Additionally, if we had an open 
immigration policy, the STAPLE 
(Stopping Trained in America PhDs 
From Leaving the Economy) Act 
wouldnt even be debated. According to Mark Zuckerberg in The Washington Post, 40 percent of STEM 
(Science, Technology, Engineering 
and Mathematics) Ph.D. candidates 
get educated in American universities and then go elsewhere to apply 
their skills. The STAPLE Act tries 
to keep these intelligent people in 
our country by stapling a green 
card to their diploma. An open immigration policy solves this problem 
altogether.
Our fragile economy cant afford 
to lose these intelligent, highly motivated immigrants, and it also cant 
afford to lose workers who may not 
have a college education but can still 
contribute to our economy.
Every single model of economic 
growth shows that the economy 
grows when more people work. At 
a time when economic growth has 
stalled, adding more people to the 
workforce at any skill level will increase the Gross Domestic Product 
(GDP). 
An open immigration policy 
might be a great way to get the 
economy going again. Additionally, 
it might allow us to document the 
illegal immigrants who live here already so they can start paying taxes.
Finally, an open immigration policy is simply the moral thing to do. 
Living in the U.S. shouldnt only be 
possible to those lucky few who happen to have been born here, know 
someone, or marry a citizen. Anyone who wants to live in America 
should be able to. 
We pride ourselves on being the 
great American melting pot. That 
shouldn't stop because were afraid 
of a few foreigners.
We stand to reap huge bene?ts 
by welcoming newcomers with open 
arms. As a nation of immigrants, we 
created the wealthiest country on 
Earth. We can keep that up by continuing the open immigration policy 
that we once had.
Kyle Henson (khenson@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
Taylor Womack
ECE
Senior
Shrek.
Patra Virasathienpornkul
MechE
Junior
Tangled.
Angela Nawrocki
MechE, Psychology
Junior
Sleeping Beauty.
Jing Xiao
Computer Science
Sophomore
The Little Match Girl.
SATVIKA NETI
Albert Einstein said it best: Everyone is a genius. But if you judge 
a ?sh on its ability to climb a tree, it 
will spend the rest of its life thinking its stupid. Sadly, this seems to 
be an accurate representation of the 
American education system right 
now. Things like standardized testing and the No Child Left Behind Act 
 which perpetuate this mentality 
 are detrimental to kids, their education, and society.
In Pennsylvania speci?cally, 
state-wide testing  the Pennsylvania System of School Assessment 
(PSSA)  is required for all grades 
up to eighth-grade, as well as 11thgrade. Schools get funding based on 
how well their students do, so they 
pressure the students to do well on 
these tests. This method of evaluating student progress does not turn 
out well for the students. Now that 
parents are starting to realize this, 
there has been a 21 percent increase 
of PSSA opt-outs for reading and 
math and a 36 percent increase for 
science from the 2010-11 year to the 
2011-12 year, according to the Pennsylvania Department of Education. 
This increase represents a vested interest in how our public schools are 
run, and a rise in interest for change.
Throughout the year, students 
are force-fed information that will 
only matter for the test. Its not just 
that teachers are teaching to the 
test  theyre forcing practice materials and worksheets on kids who 
dont necessarily want to learn at 
all. When the kids ask Why does 
this even matter? as kids do, there 
is almost no other answer to give 
them than, Itll be on the PSSA. 
Some kids that genuinely like learning and who unashamedly question 
just about anything turn into either 
robots that mechanically spout answers or sighing sarcastic children 
that dont want anything to do with 
school.
Additionally, teaching to state 
tests and forcing kids to learn one 
skill set  knowing how to take tests 
well  will not only set them back 
after school, but turn them further 
away from the notion of education 
or learning. We all realize that being 
well-rounded is better than only being well versed in one subject  so 
why should education be any different? Kids go through the education 
system learning for tests, then spend 
the next week purging all of that information to cram the next tests material into their heads.
These issues don't even account 
for all of the students that fall 
through the cracks because they 
cant take tests well. Right now, all of 
these students go around believing 
their worth and intelligence is based 
on how well they do on tests, which 
shouldnt be the case. We need to 
?rst teach these kids that their selfworth should not be based on their 
intelligence and that their intelligence should not be based on their 
standardized testing scores.
This entire system is detrimental to society. These kids that have 
been taught to the test all of their 
lives will eventually enter society 
to become working members of the 
human race, and all they will know 
instead is how to memorize and 
regurgitate and not how to learn. 
Even the ones who succeed in their 
test-taking endeavors and get good 
grades in school  while they might 
have even learned some things along 
the way  are still only thinking of 
things in terms of the next goal, the 
next success, the next presentation. 
They don't consider what theyre doing until then.
Putting Federal mandates on 
standardized testing is even worse. 
Schools with poor grades are doing 
poorly for a reason. Usually that reason is a lack of money and resources. 
Punishing schools that cannot teach 
their students well enough to pass 
the tests by taking away more of 
their money seems counterintuitive 
to me. There is no reward for doing 
well on the tests  only punishment 
for the schools and the teachers 
that fail to pass their students. Even 
schools that are doing well and cant 
do better get shunted.
If we just stopped these Federal 
mandates and put the pressure off 
schools, we would stop pressuring 
both the schools and kids into thinking that the only way to a better life 
is to swallow chunks of information and then spit them back up. 
These issues would be mitigated, albiet slightly. The long-term solution 
would be to teach these kids how to 
think instead of what to think  to 
get them interested in learning  
but that's a long way off.
The public education system has 
a lot wrong with it, but standardized 
testing encompasses most of these 
problems. The purpose of standardized testing is to set equal opportunity  a way to see where students 
stand compared to other students of 
the same grade  and level the playing ?eld. But in the end its analogous 
to saying to a ?sh: Climb that tree  
the same tree as everyone else    so 
I can test your ability fairly.
Satvika Neti (sneti@) is a staffwriter 
for The Tartan.
Circumstantial happiness makes people appreciate good days
Its time to embrace an open immigration policy
We pride 
ourselves on 
being the great 
American melting 
pot. That shouldnt 
stop because 
were afraid of a 
few foreigners ... 
We stand to reap 
huge bene?ts 
by welcoming 
newcomers with 
open arms.
Jimmy Petka
ChemE, Engineering & Public 
Policy
Sophomore
Aladdin.

---------------------------------------------------

A10  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  April 15, 2013
ABBY SMITH
Staffwriter
The cheer TARTANS! 
WHAT IS YOUR PROFESSION? can often be heard 
loud and proud from Carnegie Mellons swimming pool, 
delivered with gusto by the 
womens club water polo 
team. Though a relatively new 
sport to campus, womens 
water polo has grown and expanded signi?cantly in recent 
years, led by the positivity 
and dedication of Alice Tripp, 
a masters student in public 
policy and management.
One of the most seasoned 
players on the team, Tripp 
has watched the team consistently move up in the league 
rankings and slowly declare its 
presence, she said.
 Water polo requires endurance and strength, as players 
tread water in a game similar 
to land-based handball.
Tripp has excelled and specialized in playing hole set and 
right wing. In water polo, the 
offense often revolves around 
the hole set player. Because 
this player has the most desirable shooting and passing 
position, she is often the most 
heavily guarded as well.
Hole set de?nitely requires a lot of experience and 
knowledge of the game, said 
junior Erica Moore, the clubs 
president.
Tripp ful?lls a de?nite need 
as a right wing player since she 
is left-handed, allowing her to 
shoot from a unique angle; she 
helps immensely, since the 
rest of us are right-handed, 
Moore said. We rely on her 
pretty heavily as both a player 
and leader.
Womens water polo is a 
club sport in the competitive 
Collegiate Water Polo Association. The club holds practices 
all year, three times a week, 
although its competitive season is in the spring. In addition to practices, the team often holds scrimmages with the 
University of Pittsburgh team. 
The womens team shares its 
Thursday practices with Carnegie Mellons mens club water 
polo team.
We love going to Late 
Night with the mens team and 
getting to know them too, 
Moore said.
This year, the team ?nished 
off its season last week with a 
48 record and were seventh 
in the league.
Most recently, the Tartans hosted a championship 
tournament on April 6, with 
competing teams from Pennsylvania State University, West 
Chester University, Duke University, University of Virginia, 
University of North Carolina 
and University of Pittsburgh.
The championships went 
well and showed off just how 
much we improved, Tripp 
said. We de?nitely knew what 
we were doing. For her, this 
was a huge accomplishment, 
considering it was a rebuilding 
year where we were teaching 
most of the girls the game. In 
contrast to many of the other 
teams in their league, the Tartans lack experience. Most of 
our girls had never played before college, Tripp said.
Since the team does not 
have a coach, the team members often rely on coaching 
themselves. Alice gives us 
tons of feedback on our playing, Moore said. Shes truly 
a core player in every aspect.
Tripp began her water polo 
career as a ?rst-year at Carnegie Mellon, playing for the 
mens team. Originally from 
San Francisco, Tripp said that 
polo reminds me of home. 
Water polo is huge in Cali. 
In the spring of 2009, the 
womens water polo team was 
formed.
We have come such a long 
way from having to host bake 
sales every other weekend, 
she said. I am just so proud 
to now have full practices 
with such a fun and dedicated 
group of girls. I love both the 
competitive aspects and our 
camaraderie. Everyone is here 
to have fun and work hard.
Everyone on the team is so 
welcoming here, Moore said. 
Alice especially is so energetic 
and is truly someone we all 
look up to as both a player and 
a leader.
Moore said that Tripp is a 
very positive and energetic 
teammate who always greets 
players with a good morning, sunshine! and constantly 
entertains with trivia and stories, both polo and non-polo 
related.
Her dedication to the team 
stems from a true love for the 
sport. For me, water polo is 
such a contrast from my daily 
routine. Its high energy, and 
a release from all the schoolwork, Tripp said. Most importantly, its fun.
When not releasing her 
stress in a polo match, Tripp 
also remains heavily involved 
in Carnegie Mellons chapter 
of Habitat for Humanity.
Alice literally seems to 
do everything, Moore said. 
Shes been a huge inspiration 
for me and the other girls.
Tripps studies in public 
policy and management will 
take her to Washington, D.C. 
next fall, where she plans to 
take classes at the Heinz campus and work for the National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration in the climate 
program of?ce. Its going 
to be really hard next year 
without Alice, Moore said. 
Shes always been there and 
was truly the backbone of the 
team.
For now, Tripp savors her 
last months in Pittsburgh as 
she responds to TARTANS! 
WHAT IS YOUR PROFESSION? with a ?nal AAH-OO! 
AAH-OO! AAH-OO! 
Some say that our cheer 
is even more manly then the 
mens team, she said.
ATHLETE PROFILEAlice Tripp makes splash with womens water polo team
Jonathan Carreon/Contributing Editor
Masters student Alice Tripp has been a member of the womens water polo team since it was founded in 2009.
SPORTS COMMENTARYVia competition or accident, athletes bodies can give out
CARL GLAZER
Staffwriter
High-level athletic competition is all about pushing 
ones body to the peak of human performance, trying to 
get every drop of ability out 
of ones muscles, bones, and 
tendons. Unfortunately, putting this amount of strain on 
a body day in and day out for 
the many years of training it 
takes to play competitively 
also leaves athletes susceptible to gruesome injuries 
that the average person could 
barely imagine. 
NBA great and Los Angeles 
Laker Kobe Bryant, new Los 
Angeles Dodger pitcher Zach 
Greinke, and University of 
Louisville guard Kevin Ware 
have all experienced serious 
injuries in the last two weeks 
that will take several months 
of arduous recovery for them 
to even think about practicing 
again, much less playing at 
the same level they once did. 
These injuries all took place 
on fairly routine plays and actions, and they have served to 
showcase the fragility of the 
human body when pushed to 
its limits. 
Bryant, in his 17th season 
with the Los Angeles Lakers, 
was supposed to be reaching the twilight of his career. 
The cast of all-stars the Lakers have assembled has spent 
almost as much time in the 
training room as on the court. 
This has left the Lakers in a 
position not really known to 
them in Bryants time in Los 
Angeles: on the outside of the 
playoffs, looking in.
Bryant has refused to lose 
and has been playing over 45 
minutes a game. But while 
this succeeded in pulling the 
Lakers into the playoffs, he 
pushed his body to the limit. 
Friday night, his body gave 
out, and his left Achilles tendon ruptured with three minutes left in a game against the 
Golden State Warriors. It was 
on a step that he had taken 
millions of times before, but 
this time his body could not 
take the stress any more. Bryant now has to determine if it 
is worth the projected six- to 
nine-month recovery to return to game shape at age 
35 for what he previously 
claimed would be his last season.
Greinke was the latest 
addition in the Dodgers 
spending spree after they 
were bought by a new 
ownership group led by NBA 
Hall of Famer Magic Johnson. 
Greinke was signed to give 
depth to a rotation headlined 
by ace Clayton Kershaw.
He is known to have bit of a 
temper and has had a history 
with San Diego Padres out?eld Carlos Quentin. Quentins batting stance leaves him 
leaning slightly over the plate, 
causing him to rank near the 
top of batters hit by pitches 
each year. Back in 2008 and 
2009  when Greinke was 
with the Kansas City Royals 
and Quentin with the division 
rival Chicago White Sox  
Greinke hit Quentin twice. At 
the time, Quentin told everyone that he would retaliate if 
Greinke hit again. 
Fast forward to last 
Thursday, when the Dodgers 
and the Padres squared off 
and Greinke hit Quentin for 
the third time in their careers. 
Given the one-run game and 
a full count, it seems unlikely 
the hit was intentional. But 
that didnt stop Quentin from 
taking offense and starting 
to walk toward the mound. 
After yelling a few words 
at Greinke, Quentin looked 
ready to just walk to ?rst until 
Greinke responded by yelling 
back. Quentin then charged 
the mound and, in the ensuing 
tackle and benches-clearing 
brawl, broke Greinkes collarbone.
Greinke is out for the 
next six to eight weeks, but 
Quentin was only suspended 
for eight games. This disparity 
has made Quentin No. 1 on 
Dodgers fans list of mosthated players.
While understandable, the 
injury is just one of the ?ukes 
of having pumped-up, emotional athletes together in the 
heat of competition. While 
what happened is unfortunate, it is just as much Greinkes fault for fueling Quentins 
anger as it is Quentins for 
charging the mound.
Wares story is by far the 
saddest of all. Ware is a guard 
for the Louisville Cardinals, 
NCAA Champions. He was 
a reserve, coming off of the 
bench to give some of the Cardinals great players  those 
with sure?re NBA careers  a 
rest. But during the regional 
?nals matchup with the Duke 
Blue Devils, Ware became the 
nations most well-known college basketball player. With 
about six minutes left in the 
?rst half, Ware jumped out to 
contest a three-point shot by 
Blue Devil Tyler Thornton. 
When he landed, the entire arena come to a silent halt 
as his lower right leg snapped 
and popped out of his skin. 
His teammates were in tears, 
but in this moment of ultimate 
anguish for Ware, his legend 
was born. Ware, instead of 
focusing on himself, began to 
encourage his teammates, repeating over and over again, 
Dont worry about me. Ill 
be okay. You guys go win this 
thing. 
This soft-spoken bench 
player suddenly became the 
emotional leader for his entire 
team, showing the true meaning of being a team player. He 
has since been an inspirational story to the nation, staying 
positive and using this terrible 
situation to propel his team to 
the championship game, even 
being the last one to cut down 
the nets after Louisvilles ?nal 
win over Michigan. 
Ware is con?dent he can 
return, but whatever happens 
from here, this young man 
has written the book on how 
to spin adversity into triumph 
and how to rise to the occasion while facing the worst of 
situations.
All of these athletes 
watched their livelihoods, 
their bodies, give out on them 
through freak accidents. They 
face doubts on how well they 
can return: Bryant is facing 
the end of his career; Greinke 
has to return and excel at 
possibly the most unnatural 
sports activity, pitching; and 
Ware has to try and recover 
from having his leg literally 
fail underneath him.
But then, each player put 
in hundreds of thousands of 
hours to reach where they 
were in the ?rst place  
whats another few months of 
physical therapy?
In this moment of ultimate 
anguish for Ware, his legend was 
born. Ware, instead of focusing 
on himself, began to encourage 
his teammates.
FEATURE PHOTO
Volleyball hosts tournament
Kelsey Scott/Operations Manager
First-year Emily Lawlis sets the ball over the net in a game Saturday against Mercyhurst University as junior 
Olivia Mora looks on. The womens volleyball team hosted a six-team scrimmage tournament in Skibo Gym. 
The team came out strong and played cohesively, showing that they are on there way to a very successful fall 
season, said ?rst-year outside hitter Emma Present.

---------------------------------------------------

April 15, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A11
VINAY VISWANATHAN
Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon mens 
lacrosse team, which has experienced numerous setbacks 
and dif?culties this season, 
lost to University of Dayton 
last Saturday 181 at home. 
Still, the team is keeping its 
head up and hoping to ?nish 
Wednesdays game against 
Grove City College  the last 
game of the season  on a 
high note.
The main obstacle for this 
season has been a loss of experienced players.
From last year to this 
year we lost six starters, and 
we also lost our head coach, 
so basically the obstacle was 
starting over with a new 
team, said junior Kevin Malcolm.
Junior leader Craig Matturro agreed, saying, Our 
season this year has really 
put the team and program 
through its trials.
The loss of a head coach 
was particularly signi?cant for 
the team.
[Our] head coach ... 
stepped down a few weeks 
before our ?rst game due to 
his personal life, Matturro 
said. It was at this time when 
myself and other leaders on 
the team realized how much 
the head coach meant to the 
team  not just for practices 
and games, but for doing a lot 
of the behind-the-scene things 
we were unaware of.
Fortunately for the team, 
the assistant head coach 
stepped up to take a much 
more meaningful role for the 
organization.
Other issues include the 
teams small size and limited 
practice opportunities. Matturro explained, Our opponents are teams that typically 
boast rosters of 25 or more 
players that practice ?ve times 
a week.... In a 60-minute 
game played on an entire football ?eld, it is hard to compete 
with a 16- to 18-man roster 
that only gets enough ?eld 
time for two practices a week 
most of the time.
The team also did not get 
in much practice time before 
winter. Were pretty much a 
new team, and we didnt really play in the fall, Malcolm 
said.
The team, with a season record of 06, has suffered problems on the ?eld as well. 
Pretty much we just need 
to be organized and know 
what were doing on plays, so 
organization and communication issues [have hurt us], 
Malcolm said. A lot of the 
goals that have been scored 
against us [happen] when 
were disorganized.
The team was hoping to 
pull out a win at a scheduled 
home game against Butler 
University on Sunday, but the 
squad from Butler was unable 
to come to Pittsburgh.
However, the team is staying positive.
Spirit and team morale 
has not been harmed in any 
way, Matturro said. One of 
the best qualities of the team 
is that everyone is out there to 
compete while having a great 
time.
He continued, This is really what club sports is about, 
and the mens lacrosse team 
embodies it fully. Its a great 
group of guys who have fun 
competing in what I think 
is one of the most exciting 
games out there.
The teams next game  
the ?nal matchup of the year 
 is at home Wednesday 
against Grove City College. 
While Grove City is a strong 
squad, having beaten Dayton 
two weeks ago, the Carnegie 
Mellon team is still hopeful. 
And, though the season is 
almost over, Matturro has high 
hopes for next season, during 
which the mens lacrosse team 
is aiming for greater unity and 
teamwork to start the new 
season out strong.
Golf team ready for warm weather
Kelsey Scott/Operations Manager
Senior mid?elder James Komianos (No. 1) ?ghts for position during Saturdays game in Gesling Stadium  
against the University of Dayton. The matchup was the teams second to last of the season.
Mens lacrosse tries for strong ending
GOLF, from A12
The suns out, so were going to 
get back out there and play.
Mason Struthers,
?rst-year golfer
in ninth.
The team has overall performed well this season, with 
a home win at the Carnegie 
Mellon Fall Invitational and 
a tie for second place at the 
UAA Championships.
However, according to 
sophomore standout Justin 
Fischler, one disadvantage 
that the squad has compared 
to other teams is the weather in Pittsburgh. A school 
like Emory is able to practice all year round, while in 
Pittsburgh we cant, he explained.
I think we all kind of 
need to get our games back 
in form, Fischler said. Its 
tough after not playing outside for a while.
As for the rest of the 
school year, ?rst-year Mason 
Struthers said, Basically 
were going to try and play 
and practice as much as we 
can  and the suns out, so 
were going to get back out 
there and play.
Despite the drawbacks, 
team has worked to stay in 
shape during the winter. 
Weve been going to the gym 
and working out, Struthers 
said.
The team has a great 
deal of young talent. Bangor 
noted that ?rst-years have 
been an important part of the 
team. Moreover, the team 
is not losing any graduating seniors this year, 
and can retain its talent 
for a strong season next 
year, especially with four incoming recruits joining the 
program.
Our goal for the season 
is to get a bid to the DivisionIII Championships, Bangor 
said, [but] the way the season works, were not an automatically qualifying conference.
Fischler has similar goals 
for the team. Hopefully we 
can get three wins in the next 
couple tournaments, he 
said. And its a long shot, but 
I hope we make Nationals.
The golf team 
will play next 
at the Bearcat 
Invitational 
in Latrobe, 
Pa., on 
Thursday.
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor

---------------------------------------------------

A12  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  April 15, 2013
ABBY SMITH
Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellons club 
roller hockey team has rolled 
off to a phenomenal season, 
currently standing at an undefeated 140 in the Western 
Pennsylvania Collegiate Roller 
Hockey League (WPACRHL).
The Tartans have faced 
off against Geneva College, 
Duquesne University, Slippery 
Rock University, Penn State 
Beaver, Clarion University, 
and the Community College 
of Allegheny County South 
in the Tier 3 division of the 
WPACHRL. In their 14 wins, 
they have scored 100 goals 
while only allowing 36, and 
the team leads the league in 
nearly every category. 
Masters student Ben Wal?sh currently leads the league 
in goals and assists, scoring 29 
points throughout the season 
to become the leagues No. 
1-ranked player. Junior Zach 
Hissam follows closely as second in goals and third in assists, ranking third overall.
Having guys like Wal?sh 
and Zach on the team is invaluable. Theyre both incredibly 
talented players, but they also 
are great leaders, said Ph.D. 
student Sam Ventura. They 
take it upon themselves to instruct the younger players at 
practice, and they help everyone become better players. 
The season started in midOctober, with all games held 
at the Robert Morris University Island Sports Center. 
Months of hard work have 
paid off, as the team entered 
the playoff rounds last week, 
winning its ?rst playoff game 
against Geneva College 101 
on April 4.
We want to go as far into 
the playoffs as possible and try 
to win as many games as possible, said Ph.D. student Jason 
Fox, the clubs president. We 
want to ?nish in ?rst place.
Founded in 2000, the club 
team has grown signi?cantly 
in recent years. The team 
has both highly competitive 
and recreational players, Fox 
said. Although some players 
play a bigger role in games, 
everyone gets opportunities to 
play and learn the game. The 
team has grown to a diverse 
membership of both men and 
women that includes undergraduate students, graduate 
students, and faculty and staff 
members.
We now have so many 
players that are both funloving and dedicated to the 
sport, Fox said.
Fox said that although 
many people have played 
some form of hockey in the 
past, others  including himself  are simply attracted to 
the fast-paced game.
The dedication of the team 
is strongly evident, with several players currently competing 
with injuries. One game, our 
senior defenseman Aneesh 
Bhoopathy took a stick to the 
face that split his nose open. 
He was bleeding everywhere; 
it was pretty ugly, Ventura 
said. But he just got it closed 
up, came back to the bench, 
and ?nished the game to make 
sure we got the win. That kind 
of dedication inspires the rest 
of the team to give everything 
they have on every shift.
Aside from that, defenseman Mike McCord has been 
playing through a shoulder 
injury all season, goalie Kevin 
Liebler played through a knee 
injury, and forward Eric Smith 
has been playing with osteoporosis, Ventura said.
Last year, the Tartans only 
lost one game after being 
moved to a higher skill-level 
tier in the league; however, 
the team lost in the semi?nal 
round of the playoffs. In the 
201011 season, the team only 
lost one regular season game 
and ?nished in second place.
We are very hungry to win 
the championship game, Fox 
said. It has been something 
that has eluded us for a few 
years.
This season, our sole goal 
is to win a championship, 
Ventura added. Anything less 
than that would be a failure.
For now, the Tartans continue to focus intensely on 
the upcoming game against 
Duquesne on Wednesday at 
10:30 p.m.
Were not thinking about 
anything beyond our semi?nal game with Duquesne 
on Wednesday. This entire 
season, weve just been playing one game at a time. Its 
worked so far. Hopefully it 
works again on Wednesday, 
Ventura said.
Looking beyond this weeks 
game, Wal?sh hoped that the 
clubs success would encourage increased membership, 
even to the point of being able 
to ?eld multiple teams.
Ultimately, I hope that 
winning the championship 
will secure the teams viability going forward so that I can 
comfortably leave it in the 
hands of the future leaders of 
the team. I cannot retire until 
that happens, he said.
Club roller hockey team focuses on playoffs
Courtesy of Daryl Hollinger
A Carnegie Mellon player maneuvers the puck away from a La Roche College defender during a game at the Island Sports Center.
Strong rounds for golf team
VINAY VISWANATHAN
Staffwriter
The mens golf team recently played in two tournaments: the Hershey Cup 
in Hershey, Pa., and the 
Edward Jones Shootout  
hosted by Carnegie Mellon 
University  in Apollo, Pa. 
The team placed third at the 
Hershey Cup and fourth at 
the Edward Jones Shootout. 
Discussing the teams 
third-place showing out of 
15 teams in the Hershey 
Cup, junior Ian Bangor said, 
I thought we played well. 
The ?rst day was tough conditions; it wasnt easy. 
Bangor said, While I 
didnt play well, we had 
a good freshman, Ben 
DuCarme, play well with a 
76. He added, We played 
pretty well as a team the 
second day, and shot 299, 
with a couple shots away 
from beating Rochester.
At the Edward Jones 
Shootout, the team ended 
up with a 618 in 36 holes, 
trailing Point Park University, Allegheny College, and 
St. Vincent College. Bangor 
and DuCarme led the team 
at the Shootout with scores 
of 151 and 153, respectively. Bangor placed fourth 
overall, and DuCarme came 
See GOLF, A11

---------------------------------------------------

Reunion Weekend 2013
In honor of the reunions being held over Spring Carnival, The Tartan is featuring a brief review of past issues for the one-year, 10-year, 20-year, 30-year, 40-year, and 50-year anniversaries. The articles printed within are abridged from The Tartans archives. 
File Photos  (from top, left to right) by: Jos Lopez, Celia Ludwinski, Kristen Severson, Guillermo Gomez, Tommy Hofman, Celia Ludwinski, Jos Lopez

---------------------------------------------------

B2  thetartan.org/special The Tartan  April 15, 201319621963
SEPTEMBER 26, 1962
When a student returns 
from his summer vacation 
to Carnegie Tech, he usually 
discovers that the landscape 
of the campus is somewhat 
different from the way he 
left it in the spring. Fall of 
1962 offers no exception to 
this discovery. The buildings 
completed during the past 
summer vacation were the 
annex to Morewood Gardens, 
E Tower, and the new engineering and science building, 
the Alan M. Scaife Engineering Hall.
Tower E, which cost approximately $1,485,000 to 
build, houses 217 girls and 
several families. The bottom two ?oors are made up 
of small apartments, which 
house women graduate students, married students, and 
faculty members. 
Each apartment on the 
?rst ?oor has its own street 
entrance. Although there are 
variations in the designs of 
each apartment, generally, 
each consists of a living room, 
a bedroom, a kitchenette, and 
a bath.
From the third to the seventh ?oors, E Tower is a dormitory with room for 44 girls 
on each ?oor. The new and 
old dorms are connected by 
a hall which runs over the 
Morewood cafeteria. Each 
double room has built-in book 
cases, and cork which may be 
used as bulletin boards. Some 
have window seats. There 
are telephone outlets in each 
room, and any girl may have 
her own private phone installed.
The Alan M. Scaife Hall, 
at a cost of $2,000,000, is a 
gift to Tech from the Sarah 
Mellon Scaife Foundations. 
Besides classrooms, the building houses labs for nuclear research, the computation center, and of?ces for deans of 
the Engineering and Science 
center, and of?ces for deans 
of Engineering and Science. 
Scaife Hall, which extends 
from the main part of the new 
building is an auditorium 
with  seats for 100 people.
Besides being air conditioned, Scaife Hall has a sun 
screen placed four feet from 
the outside wall of the building, which extends the entire 
way around it. 
The screen, which is made 
of aluminum strips, keeps the 
suns rays out of the hall until 4:30 p.m. every afternoon. 
This is made possible because 
of the inside of Scaife Hall 
is ceramic tile that lines the 
stairwells, ceilings, and walls 
of the buildings lobby.
The completion of these 
two additions to Techs campus marks the end of the ?rst 
half of Carnegie Techs tenyear development program.
There have also been some 
housing changes on campus 
this year due to the opening 
of the new Morewood Gardens addition. 
Forbes and Schiller Halls, 
formerly womens forms, 
are being put to other uses. 
Forbes is being used as a graduate house for single men. 
There are 41 men now living 
there. The double rooms in 
the annex have been converted to singles. David Bishop is 
the resident head.
Kappa Sigma Fraternity, 
last year living in a house off 
campus, has now moved to 
Schiller Hall. 
They will occupy it only 
temporarily until some arrangements for another house 
can be made.
September sees ?rst class in Scaife Engineering Hall
File Photo
Scaife Hall opened this semester to enthusiasm from students and faculty.
OCTOBER 3, 1962
Dr. J. C. Warner has announced the appointment of 
two new department heads in 
the College of Fine Arts.
Professor Robert W. Corrigan, head of the department 
of drama, and professor Lee 
Goldman, head of the department of painting, design, and 
sculpture, have assumed their 
new positions.
Professor Corrigan came to 
Tech in September 1961. Recently he was named Andrew 
Mellon Professor of Drama, 
and he will continue to ?ll that 
distinguished chair.
A nationally known educator, lecturer, and writer  and 
an editor of the Tulane Drama 
Review  Corrigan received 
his A.B. degree from Cornell 
University, his M.A. from 
Johns Hopkins University, and 
his Ph.D. from the University 
of Minnesota. He has directed 
over 35 plays in university and 
summer theaters and has published articles in the leading 
education and theater journals throughout the country. 
Professor Corrigan succeeds 
Professor Theodore Hoffman, 
who has resigned from his administrative duties after having served as the head of the 
department of drama since 
1958.
Professor Goldman, a native of Pittsburgh, received his 
BFA degree from Tech and later studied at Randolph-Macon 
College and the University of 
Tampa. He succeeds, in his departmental duties, professor 
Norman L. Rice, dean of the 
College of Fine Arts, who has 
also been head of the department of painting, design, and 
sculpture for the past seven 
years.
From 1951 to 1956 Mr. 
Goldman served as a designer 
at Corning Glass Works, and 
from 1956 to 1959 he was director of design for the same 
company. He spent 196061 
in Europe and the Far East 
in private design practice, 
and joined the Carnegie Tech 
faculty as apart-time faculty 
member last September.
Fine Arts appoints new department heads
NOVEMBER 7, 1962
Mario Amadeo, former 
Argentine representative to 
the United Nations and an 
expert on international law, 
will speak in next Tuesdays 
assembly at 11:30 a.m. in the 
Fine Arts Theater. The talk 
will concern the United Nations today and its position in 
the Cuban crisis.
Amadeo has been Argentinas minister of foreign affairs and U.N. representative 
for four years. He resigned 
his post in the United Nations 
last April in protest against 
what he regarded as the illegal seizure of his countrys 
government by a military 
group. He has just returned 
to the U.S. from a conference 
on international law in Bogota, Columbia.
A constant ?ghter for a 
strong constitutional government, Amadeo is often referred to as the stormy petrel 
of Argentinas story politics. 
He has fought the Peronists 
and Communists with equal 
zeal. His record in the U.N. is 
distinguished. 
He served as chairman 
of the Commission of Human Rights, as a member of 
the Conciliation Committee 
for the Congo and as vice 
chairman of the Committee on Outer Space. He was 
the spokesman for Argentine 
rights when Israel abducted 
Adolph Eichmann from his 
country. 
His many books and articles have a wide circulation in the Spanish-speaking 
world.
He helped found the Argentine Catholic Action in 
1931; he also helped save 
Jean Domingo Perns life 
back in 1955, ?shing him out 
of the water after the Argentine president slipped.
Expert speaks on Cuban Missile Crisis
MAY 8, 1963
In the ?nals of the Spring 
Carnivals Buggy Races last 
Saturday morning, Pi Kappa 
Alpha fraternity captured the 
?rst-place trophy by beating 
the Sigma Alpha Epsilon and 
Beta Theta Pi buggies in an 
exciting, close ?nish. PiKAs 
Shark had a winning time of 
2:31.75. The SAE bike barely 
passed the BTP buggy in the 
last 100 yards. to ?nish second 
in 2.34.2.
The three buggies that ran 
in Saturdays ?nals were the 
fastest three in the preliminary races held Friday morning. BTP had the fastest time 
in the prelims with a 2:34.1. 
The other times turned in 
on Friday were: PKA 2:34.4, 
SAE 2:34.53, DU 2:36.4, ATO 
2:39.8, Sigma Nu 2:42.15, 
PKA 2:44.6, DU 2:57.2, PKT 
2:56.4, Sigma Nu 2.57.57, and 
ATO 3:11.45.
Fridays preliminaries 
turned out to be a morning of 
upsets as Alpha Tau Omegas 
famed Goose failed to turn 
in the top performance for the 
?rst time in ?ve consecutive 
years. The Goose failed to 
turn in the top performance 
for the ?rst time in ?ve consecutive years. The Goose 
raced in the sixth and last heat 
of the day. After completing an 
extraordinary free roll, it spun 
out of the second-to-last turn 
on the course. Most everyone 
agreed that the ATO was on 
the way to a possible course 
record, but after spinning out 
the buggy had no chance of 
placing in the top three  the 
third pusher had to run back 
several hundred feet to get 
the Goose going again. By 
this time all hope of ?nishing 
with a good time was gone, 
and unfortunately the Goose 
?nished in a dismal last in 
3:11.45.
The design competition 
and safety inspections were 
held early Friday morning 
behind the grandstand. For 
brake inspection, the buggies 
were placed on a 15-degree 
ramp and had to remain stationary when the brakes were 
applied. Six of the buggies entered failed to pass the brake 
test after two attempts but ?ve 
of them went back to work and 
repaired breaks well before 
race time in order to pass the 
inspections. The other buggy 
had a drag brake that did not 
work effectively on a plywood 
ramp. The chairman agreed to 
let this buggy compete anyway 
since their break did hold on 
the pavement.
The judges in the design 
competition represented both 
Ford Motors and General Motors. They chose Sigma Nus 
candy-apple-red number three 
as best-designed buggy. Sigma 
Nu had an entirely new suspension system, which was of 
particular interest to the judges. This is only the third year 
for this buggy, which promises 
some interesting competition 
in future races.
PiKA Shark leads buggies to capture Sweepstakes ?nal
FEATURE PHOTO
File Photo
Carnegie Techs Kiltie Band performs in synchronized formation and full Kiltie regalia, demonstrating true Carnegie Tech pride.
File Photos
File Photo
Dr. Mario Amadeo served as the Argentine representative to the United 
Nations and is an expert on international law.
The new department heads are Dean Robert W. Corrigan of the drama department (left) and Lee Goldman of the art department (right).

---------------------------------------------------

April 15, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/special  B319721973
Pottery room on ?re
CMU admission policy transforms
R. M. Cyert inaugurated as sixth Carnegie Mellon president
MARCH 6, 1973
On Monday, Feb. 19, 1973 
at 6:33 a.m., Bill Steel, a University of Pittsburgh student, 
reported a ?re in the Fine Arts 
Building. Four of?cers ran to 
the building in response to 
the call, while the Security 
Of?ce called the Pittsburgh 
Fire Department.
Of?cer Goodlow got to 
the burning pottery room 
?rst; however, due to student 
mischief, there were no full 
?re extinguishers available. 
While he ran to ?nd an extinguisher, of?cer Yoskoske and 
two off-duty men, of?cers 
Reihart and Meyer, entered 
the smoke ?lled room. With 
no real knowledge of how 
bad the ?re was, the men 
ripped the burning wood 
from the wall to prevent further spreading of the ?re. By 
the time the ?re department 
arrived, security men had put 
out the ?re.
Ron Taylor, head of Security Services, said, I think the 
of?cers  both the ones that 
were on duty, and the ones 
that were off-duty  did just 
what I would have expected 
they would have done, but 
did a great deal more than 
what is required of them. The 
damages were only $500 due 
to the fast work done by the 
security men. This situation 
is another example of how 
the security of?cers protect 
the campus community.
SEPTEMBER 19, 1972
Labor Day dawned, and 
on Carnegie Mellon campus a 
form of life known as freshman gradually gathered in 
strength. However, after the 
preliminary rituals of registration and frat barbecues, 
this new creature was quickly 
absorbed into Carnegie Mellon mainstream. Whether he 
is praising or condemning his 
choice of Carnegie Mellon as 
his birthplace, the average 
freshman is here through the 
invitation of Carnegie Mellon 
admissions under the auspices of William Elliott.
Elliott was appointed Director of Admissions in 1971, 
having already served as associate director in 1970. He 
is a member of the National 
Association of College Admissions Counselors, and feels 
that the role of the university 
admissions of?ce is changing. 
Elliott feels that the point is 
to admit, not reject, prospective students, and that Carnegie Mellon is still not being 
fully utilized as is possible. 
This feeling may account for 
a certain laxing in the old 
admittance requirements. 
Minority students  whose 
records, says Elliott, are like 
no others on the campus   
are being admitted through 
CMAP (Carneige Mellon Action Program) in an attempt 
to broaden the range of students at CMUs seventy-some 
students originally rejected 
last spring were invited to attend this fall after a re-examination of their records. 
Each one, Elliott said, 
had some strong point, and 
were trying to build from 
there. The point is to give students a chance. Some arent 
successful, but many are  
many who, several years ago, 
might night have been allowed to try.
As far as applications, 
H&SS was up about 1 percent from 1971, engineering and science (E&S) was 
down about 10 percent, and 
?ne arts remained the same. 
There is still a strong majority of females in H&SS, and 
males in math and science, 
but Elliott expects a dramatic 
upsurge in female applicants 
to E&S in the next few years, 
due to both greater opportunities and greater interest. 
Whether females are being 
actively recruited to previously male dominions and 
vice-versa is doubtful, but 
new feelings of sexual equality are eventually expected 
to result in a more balanced 
pattern of departmental 
applications.
MARCH 13, 1973
President Richard M. Cyert was of?cially installed as 
the sixth president of Carnegie Mellon University and 
was handed the university 
charter, by George A. Roberts, 
vice chairman of the Board 
of Trustees, to signify this 
event.  J.C. Warner and H. 
Guyford Stever (President of 
the National Science Foundation) were then recognized, 
at which time they both, independently, wished Mr. and 
Mrs. Cyert the best of luck 
and reaf?rmed their faith in 
the ability of President Cyert 
to serve this university during 
his tenure as president.
Howard Bowen, present 
Chancellor of Claremont University, who later in the ceremony would receive an honorary degree of doctor of laws, 
then delivered his address 
entitled The Purpose of Carneige Mellon University. In 
his speech, Bowen defended 
the role of private universities 
in an age of unlimited access 
to state institutions. It is no 
time to be dismantiling the old 
established elite universities, 
he said, claiming that they 
are the innovators in higher 
education. They seem to have 
unlimited ambitions and to 
scatter their activities, he admitted, noting that it is a rare 
institution that retrenches 
very much. But he suggested 
that private institutions could 
survive by continuous pruning along with continuous 
innovation.
Bowen also spoke of the 
crisis facing all universities 
alike, saying, What educators 
have lacked in the way of performance measurement they 
have made up for in glowing 
rhetoric about the results of 
their work. A somewhat disillusioned society, which is 
being asked for billions of 
dollars for higher education, 
is expecting something more 
than rhetoric and is asking the 
blunt question: What are we 
getting for our money?
Responding to Bowens address, Cyert spoke ?rst of the 
problems Carnegie Mellon is 
facing and then of possible solutions to these problems. The 
days of the 60s when money 
for research was plentiful and 
students were clamoring for 
admittance are gone, and we 
know it, he said, but added, 
I am enthusiastic about the 
future of this university. Cyert discussed the dilemma of 
?nancing, reiterating his belief 
that increasing tuition only 
drives students away from 
private institutions, aggravating the problem. If the gap 
in tuition between public and 
private institutions is allowed 
to exist, the private institution 
must make clear the quality differences in education that can 
justify such discrepancies. He 
examined several approaches 
to cutting costs, saying, It is 
possible to live with more dirt 
than one desires, with higher 
grass, with fewer services, 
but asked, Can we reduce the 
size of faculty, decrease the 
numbers of course offerings, 
increase class size, and still 
argue that we are providing 
higher quality education? Can 
we eliminate intercollegiate 
and intramural athletics, counseling services and placement 
services, and argue that we are 
providing a superior education 
and the life qualities associated 
with it? He concluded that 
many academic expenses could 
not be cut.
The president outlined 
several projects that would 
simultaneously ease Carnegie 
Mellons budget problems and 
provide service to society. He 
spoke of extending education to the homes of full-time 
jobholders, increasing the effective number of students 
per faculty member without 
crowding or diluting educational quality. He expressed 
hope that the recently reorganized Division of Sponsored 
Research would attract new 
industrial contracts while 
reducing the lag between research discoveries and their 
implementation. He explained 
two business administration 
projects  the Entrepreneurial 
Center and the Venture Capital Fund  that would simultaneously encourage a diversity 
of business for the Pittsburgh 
area, give students practical 
experience, make faculty expertise available to the community, and generate revenue 
for the university.
For the future, Cyert said 
We do not think our salvation 
lies in growth nor in becoming 
a public institution. The future of this institution, we realize, is dependent in an important way on the quality of our 
undergraduate education. 
But he  af?rmed his dedication 
to research, saying, It is highly likely that over the next 10 
years our total effort in science 
will be smaller but of very high  
quality.
File Photo
Top: The faculty is dressed in formal attire for invocation. Left: Mike Garl, student government president, speaks 
about Cyerts close association with students. Right: The processional is led by the traditional bagpipes.
OCTOBER 31, 1972
Power, af?uence, or extreme luck were practically 
the only ways one could get 
tickets for last Fridays performance of Godspell which 
opened its national tour at 
Pittsburghs Nixon Theatre. 
Godspells creator John-Michael Tebelak was at Carnegie Mellon on Thursday, 
and spoke to professor Fred 
Youens Technical-Production 
Class II about Godspell, its development, and all the problems he had to face in order to 
have a successful show. Tebelak also spoke about theater 
life in general, especially in 
New York, and his impressions 
as a former Carnegie Mellon 
Drama major. The Tartan was 
lucky enough to be present at 
this class, and the informal 
questioning and answering 
carried on by Tebelak and the 
students resulted in this article.
All questions were raised 
by drama students. The Tartan merely listened and wrote. 
The ?rst question was Are you 
rich? Tebelak replied that he 
didnt know; that in his seond 
year at Carnegie Mellon hed 
seen friends of his, working in 
New York, destroyed one-byone by checks. When Tebelak 
went there, he engaged the 
services of a man who handles 
all his ?nances. He now gets 
an allowance. About $50 
more than I did at Carnegie 
Mellon, and Im happy.
The subject of money 
was raised again regarding 
how much it cost to produce 
a show like Godspell, and 
how the money was raised. 
It turns out that the ?lm version of Godspell has a budget 
of about $1 million, comparatively small for a venture of its 
size. Careful budgeting by the 
producers enabled to show to 
stay open in New York, even 
though it wasnt an immediate 
success. Theater-going is not 
taken lightly in New York, and 
with good reason, as Tebelak 
pointed out.
Tebelak was asked how he 
felt about Godspells development into a Broadway show, 
and now a movie. Tebelak said 
that the show was progressing 
naturally, and that problems 
had been met with and that 
problems had been met with 
and solved at each stage of 
its development. Tebelak said 
he always felt that Godspell 
was a movie, and in asking 
the actors to act largely on 
stage, he was asking them to 
perform as they would have 
in a ?lm version. In the movie, 
the stage and settings are removed entirely, and New York 
City is the backdrop. Tebelak 
feels that this is another indication of the natural swing 
the show has-it started on a 
small stage. As the theaters 
changed, they were steadily 
larger, and Godspell shifted 
without much dif?culty. 
The ?lm version was a culmination of all the productions, and New York City was 
the ultimate place to stage it.
Tebelak spoke of the great 
loyalty the cast had for the 
show. They often worked for 
the show itself, not for the 
money, and it was this kind of 
spirit which kept the show going. The original 10 cast members all got 1 percent of the 
stock in the show  some arent 
in it anymore, but theyll get 
the money from road productions, over seas tours, records, 
T-shirts, everything. 
He said that often producers and backers would pretend to have no interest in the 
show, so they wouldnt get 
emotionally involved, but that 
that had been impossible with 
Godspell.
Godspell playwright tells of the N.Y. stage
File Photo
The Godspell cast becomes totally involved in the Biblical interpretation.

---------------------------------------------------

B4  thetartan.org/special The Tartan  April 15, 201319821983
MARCH 8, 1983
We saw that there was 
no medical organization 
on campus, and we realized the need for one since 
it takes about five to six 
minutes before paramedics arrive on campus, 
said Mark Sander, president of the newly formed 
Carnegie-Mellon University Emergency Medical 
Squad. 
Our goals are essentially to work with security, and to make available 
various types of training to 
the campus community, 
added secretary and treasurer Bob Aarhus.
Mark Sander and Rob 
Schnorr began collecting 
the necessary permission 
and approval for the organization in September 
1982. According to Sander, they gained support 
from Chief Fadzen, Sergeant Rizci, and the campus police department. 
The service is now recognized by Student Senate as 
a temporary student organization.
According to Sander 
and Aarhus, any student 
who has an interest will be 
trained to be active in the 
emergency medical service. The club meets on the 
first and third Wednesdays 
of each month. The first 
meeting serves as a business discussion and the 
second is for the purpose 
of membership training.
Trained members of the 
organization include certified emergency medical 
technicians (EMTs), students certified in first aid 
and CPR, and one paramedic, Gerry Vaerwyck, 
the organizations vice 
president. Seven campus 
police officers are presently in training for EMT 
certification.
One of the groups first 
activities is to sponsor a 
full Red Cross CPR course 
on Saturday, April 2. The 
course will last approximately nine hours and is 
open to the entire campus 
community. 
Individuals that complete this session will 
be fully certified in CPR 
skills. If this course is a 
success, the organization 
plans to offer a follow-up 
course for certification in 
basic first aid.
Sand said the emergency medical service has not 
as of yet received a budget 
from Student Senate,  but 
its target date for initiating operation is April 22, 
during Spring Carnival. A 
first-aid station will be operated by the organization 
for the carnival.
When the group becomes active, one certified 
EMT and a second trained 
member will accompany 
the campus police officers 
on all medical calls. 
We want to be organized for 24-hour response, Sander said. 
Well treat basic life support and take the patients 
to Shadyside or act as first 
responders to the incident.
EMS formedby CMUstudents
NOVEMBER 2, 1982
Friday afternoon, approximately 500 students gathered 
on the steps of Warner Hall to 
rally against the 19 percent increase in tuition for the 1983
84 school year.
The crowd, led by Student 
Government President Nate 
Solano and accompanied by 
guitarists Sam Cohen and Pat 
Dominguez, sang about the 
tuition increases to the tunes 
of Blowing in the Wind and 
Where Have All the Flowers 
Gone. The students, many 
carrying signs, periodically 
broke out in chant, including 
Were broke, and We want 
Dick.
A refreshment table was set 
up on the patio of Warner Hall 
with a sign saying compliments of the president. During the rally, a student tore 
the sign in half and threw it to 
the crowd. When acting dean 
of student affairs Brad Walter 
spoke to the students, people 
from the crowd pelted him 
and Warner Hall with cookies, 
some shouting, Let them eat 
cookies!
The rally should make the 
administration think twice 
about raising tuition next year, 
said Solano. Its a 19 percent 
increase with a 6.5 percent 
in?ation rate at the most. Its 
just not justi?able, he said.
Student Senator Tom McCarthy explained that the rally 
was a chance for students to 
become involved in the tuition 
issue. According to McCarthy, 
the real issue is that students 
are demanding more information on where the tuition money is going. If we know what 
those actual ?gures are, we 
could say, no, we dont want 
this, we dont want that, and 
perhaps a few dollars could be 
taken off, McCarthy said.
McCarthy invited President 
Richard Cyert to speak at the 
rally, but Cyert declined, saying he did not want to talk at 
a show. Cyert explained that 
he was busy with appointments during the rally, and 
that he would answer any 
questions about tuition at the 
forum to be held Nov. 11.
I see nothing wrong with 
students gathering, Cyert 
said, adding that the rally is 
not likely to affect the price of 
tuition. You cant let things 
like that affect decisions, he 
said.
Cyert denied that students 
are withheld information on 
where tuition money is going. 
Anyone is free to look at the ?-
nancial statements of the university, he said, and pointed 
out that only three students 
attended a recent forum on 
tuition. The announcement of 
the forum was made the night 
before it was held.
The head of the tuition 
committee, Fred Rogers, said 
the rallys point was well taken, but asked, Where were all 
the protesters when the decision was being made? Of the 
two students who were on the 
tuition committee, none proposed a freeze, and some favored an even larger increase. 
Rogers agreed, If only three 
students show up its a joke. If 
300 show up its no joke. But 
even with student concern, 
tuition will still probably not 
go up less than 10 percent in 
8485.
When we compare out tuition with schools like MIT, we 
arent saying we have to keep 
up with them to admissions, 
he said. Thats not true at 
all. But weve got to look at 
whether theyll be able to offer 
more to their students for the 
extra money. The increase 
wont bring sudden changes, 
he added. Its gradual improvement over time.
The decision to raise tuition 
from $6,300 to $7,500 for the 
8384 school year was made 
last spring, and the tuition 
committee will be meeting 
this month to plan tuition for 
8485. The current tuition of 
some of Carnegie Mellon competitors are: Cornell, $7,050; 
Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, $7,400; Harvard, 
$7,490; and Brandeis, $7,650.
A cardboard model of a terminal was burned at the end 
of the rally, in reference to the 
contract signed between Carnegie Mellon and IBM. The ?re 
was extinguished by Walter.
At the end of the rally, 
which lasted just under an 
hour, Solano urged everyone 
to come to the administrations explanation of the tuition increase Nov. 11 at 4:30 
p.m. They wont be able to ?t 
us in the ballroom, he said.
Hundreds of students protest 19 percent tuiton hike
Movie ?lming at CMU
NOVEMBER 9, 1982
If you walked past Carnegie Institute on Wednesday, Thursday, or Friday of 
the last week in October, 
you probably noticed something a little unusual. For 
one thing, CI was calling 
itself The Pittsburgh Dance 
and Repertory Company. 
For another, men with 
walkie-talkies were keeping 
people away from the front 
entrance.
The reason for all the 
commotion was Flashdance, 
a movie about a female 
welder in Pittsburgh who 
decides to enter the wonderful world of dance.
You say youve never 
heard of it? That could be 
because it doesnt open 
until May of next year. But 
last week, the cast and crew 
came to Carnegie Institute 
to ?lm some on-location 
shots.
Flashdance crew started 
?lming in Pittsburgh on 
Oct. 18, and ?lmed scenes 
downtown, in an un?nished subway tunnel, and 
in Southside. On Oct. 27 
it brought Hollywood to 
Oakland as trailer trucks 
bearing the Paramount 
Pictures logo blocked off 
most of the CI parking lot 
and parts of Forbes Avenue 
as well.
The ?lms producers, 
Don Simpson and Jerry 
Bruckheimer, are no strangers to ?lm. Simpson has 
been President of Production for Paramount until 
this past June. Bruckheimer 
has produced ?lms such as 
American Gigolo and Young 
Doctors in Love. Bruckheimer explains why they 
decided to ?lm in Pittsburgh: The script (by Tom 
Hedley and Joe Eszteras) 
called for a northeastern industrial town.
CMU, IBM sign computer agreement
OCTOBER 26, 1982
Last week, President Richard Cyert signed a contract 
with IBM to develop a personal computing plan for Carnegie Mellon, while students 
protested.
The aim of the plan is to 
provide every student with 
his or her  own personal computer. IBM will develop the 
machines, and Cyert hopes to 
have the ?rst large installation 
in 1985. By 1991, he expects 
to have 7,500 computers available, each with its own graphics display. All of these computers will be used in a large 
network, so that communication between any two people 
on the system will be possible.
The computer system 
we are developing will be a 
revolution in education, Cyert said at a press conference 
Wednesday. I expect that this 
will be looked back upon in 25 
or 30 years as the most signi?-
cant move in the 20th century 
as far as higher education is 
concerned.
According to Cyert, each 
student will probably own a 
personal computer, and all 
will be linked together in a 
single network to allow easy 
communication. This will 
be the largest network in history, Cyert said.
We will design the system 
so that all students can have 
access, said Dough Van Houweling, vice provost, but the 
decision about requiring computers for everyone will not be 
made before 1984.
Universities are a center 
of information processing, 
added Provost Richard Van 
Horn. Computers are another capital innovation, like 
libraries were once. For this 
reason, he feels that Carnegie 
Mellon must develop its computing power now.
Cyert added, This step is 
imperative! Universities that 
havent begun planning this 
sort of development are regretting it already. He said 
students will be able to increase their learning by as 
much as 50 percent with 
computers helping them.
GOOFBALL STUDENTS
Some students, however, 
are not pleased with the plan. 
Several students protested 
outside of the press conference on Wednesday, many 
carrying signs bearing slogans 
such as Damn the students! 
Full speed ahead, CMU computer policy bytes, and Does 
this mean IBM owns CMU?
These students were 
barred from the press conference.
Laura Sabadell, Student 
Senate ?nance chair, said she 
heard Cyert say to Brad Walter, acting dean of student affairs, Did you see those goofball students? Why dont you 
see if you can disperse them. 
Students have two main 
complaints  that the machines may be required, and 
that they were kept from presenting their views. Student 
Senate passed a resolution last 
week that said: Whereas, the 
Administration has not made 
an effective effort to inform 
the students, be it resolved 
by the students of Carnegie 
Mellon in Student Senate assembled, that we students 
believe that no student should 
be required to purchase any 
computing equipment. The 
resolution was submitted by 
Andy Stahl and passed 157 
by a roll call vote.
We are representing our 
constituents by saying we 
dont want personal computers, said Janelle Molloy, Senate vice chair.
The students will be guinea pigs, added Scott Sa?er. 
Said Tom McCarthy, It is important for us to help form 
this contract.
We werent required to  
buy calculators when they  
were the wave of the future, 
said John Snyder, chairman of 
the academic affairs committee.
NO OBLIGATION
Dr. Lewis Branscomb, chief 
scientist for IBM, said, This is 
the culmination of a variety of 
dreams. CMU has already had 
a bene?cial impact on IBM. 
He added that Carnegie Mellon has developed important 
innovations and conceptions 
of computing.
Branscome denied that 
there were any health risks,  
and said The Occupational 
Health and Safety division 
of the government has concluded that there are no direct 
medical effects. If there is any 
psychological stress the responsibility does not lie with 
the technology.
File Photo
President Richard Cyert speaks about the rise in tuition, student facilities, and student housing to a crowd of protesting students. 
File Photo
Students protest the computer agreement between Carnegie Mellon and IBM.
We want to 
be organized 
for 24hour 
response.
 Mark Sander,
CMU EMS 
president

---------------------------------------------------

April 15, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/special  B5
FEBRUARY 15, 1993
In response to the rape on 
Frew Street on Jan. 31, David 
Wolpert, a junior applied history major, and Kevin Bronke, 
a junior mechanical engineering major, went to Scotland 
Yard to discuss the problems 
of campus crime. 
At that informal meeting, 
Wolpert and Bronke developed SafeWalk, a program 
that enhances the safety of 
Carnegie Mellon students by 
providing escorts for those 
walking across campus during evening and late-night 
hours, according to their 
proposal outline given to 
Student Senate on Tuesday.
SafeWalk will provide a 
male and female escorter 
for every person who needs 
to walk on campus in three 
minutes or less, according to 
Wolpert. There will be a fee 
for using this service, said 
Wolpert, adding that SafeWalk will walk anybody anywhere thats on the campus 
map  from Mudge to the 
Hill.
Dean of Student Affairs 
Michael Murphy said, I am 
a proponent of the [SafeWalk] program. The caring 
of students for the welfare of 
other students is tremendous. 
It is critically important that 
our students are safe on this  
campus.
Wolpert said, Weve seen 
women carrying mace and 
whistles. Women just cant 
walk alone at CMU, and 
something needed to be done. 
Thats why we decided on developing SafeWalk. Wolpert 
said that after the meeting in 
Scotland Yard, they talked to 
Campus Police Of?cer Raymond Mialki, who was assigned to deal with the issue 
of sexual assault, and Student Government President 
Natalie Gesmond, who was 
already planning a program 
similar to SafeWalk. Wolpert 
said, [Gesmond was very enthusiastic and excited about 
the program, and offered her 
support.
Wolpert, Bronke, and Gesmond said that they hope to 
get the SafeWalk program 
started by next month. Gesmond said, we want this 
program to start before the 
beginning of March. That 
means the beginning of recruitment. We want to have 
this program begin as soon as 
possible. Now is the time for 
action, as far as this project is 
concerned. 
On Feb. 1, Wolpert, Bronke, and Gesmond met to further develop the SafeWalk 
program. Bronkesaid, Thats 
how the ball got rolling, and 
Tuesday, [Wolpert and Bronke] appeared in [Gesmonds] 
place at Student Senate.
[SafeWalk is intended] 
to deter crimes for which 
students are frequently targeted at night, speci?cally 
robbery, assault, rape, and 
harassment, according to 
the mission statement in the 
SafeWalk proposal. SafeWalk 
will operate from dusk until 4 
a.m., prodiving every person 
who needs to be escorted with 
a team of two escorters  one 
male and one female. [Escorters] are not allowed to 
separate unless an emergency 
situation necessitates so, according to the SafeWalk proposal.
Wolpert said that there 
are three reasons for having 
two escorters for every one 
person: comfort, liability, and 
safety. Wolpert said that a situation can occur in which an 
escorter sexually assaults the 
person he is escorting, or vice 
versa. He said, Having a man 
and a woman would make 
such a story less credible. 
There is safety in numbers. 
Wolpert also said that somebody is less likely to attack a 
trio of people than a pair of 
people.
The SafeWalk program 
will have a central dispatcher at a campus extension to 
which requests for an escort 
can be made. According to 
Wolpert, the central dispatcher will tell the person on line 
an exact time, who will be 
escorting that person, where 
they will be meeting, and 
when they will meet. The 
[central dispatcher] will keep 
an accurate log of all information on escorts and times, 
Wolpert said.
Wolpert said that the rules 
are going to be very strict on 
escorters. We require them 
to be on active call,  Wolpert said. Bronke said, We require that escorters do not do 
anything that would shorten 
their attention span. 
Bronke said that escorters 
will not be able to eat, play 
video games, or smoke while 
on active duty. Escorters 
must take their job very seriously. They must be alert, responsible, prompt, and courteous, Wolpert said.
According to the SafeWalk proposal, escorters will 
wear a highly visible uniform and carry a radio and a  
?ashlight. 
Students propose SafeWalk programCMU ranks 19th in national survey
SEPTEMBER 21, 1992
Carnegie Mellon University, once again ranking among 
the top 25 national higher education institutions, moved 
from 24th to 19th, a jump of 
?ve places, according to the 
annual U.S. News and World 
Report survey for 1991.
Carnegie Mellon was 
ranked 19th in the country, 
with Harvard University 
ranked number one for the 
third year running. Carnegie 
Mellon was ranked 24th in 
the previous years survey. 
The U.S. News & World Report 
survey utilized statistical information from students and 
faculty at 1,373 educational 
institutions. Ranking was 
also broken down for particular statistics, like faculty 
student ratio and SAT scores.
With an overall score of 
89.2, Carnegie Mellon ranked 
just below Brown University 
and just above Washington 
University. Carnegie Mellon 
had one of the best studentto-faculty ratios, nine to one, 
and one of the highest dollar 
amounts of faculty resources 
(15th out of all the schools 
surveyed).
However, Carnegie Mellon also trailed many of the 
top schools in certain areas. 
Graduation rate was a low 
69 percent, and ?rst-year 
class retention rate was only 
86 percent, where ?gures for 
schools above Carnegie Mellon were consistently in the 
90s. Despite this, the overall 
impression of Carnegie Mellons climb in the rankings 
has been mostly favorable.
Carnegie Mellon President 
Robert Mehrabian expressed 
great pride when informed 
of the national magazines 
?ndings. Its great that the 
U.S. News and World Report 
survey veri?es what many of 
us have long known  Carnegie Mellon is among a select 
group of the very best universities in this country, said 
Mehrabian, who went on to 
describe a vision where Carnegie Mellon was of the ?rst 
rank in all  endeavors.
The rankings recognize 
that our renewed emphasis 
on undergraduate education 
is having an impact and it 
gives us strong momentum to 
continue this initiative. One 
of the values of these types 
of surveys is to compare your 
performance in various categories with those of other 
institutions, especially those 
in leadership positions.
[The administration] is 
extremely pleased with our 
move up the rankings list, but 
by pursuing continuous improvement of our academic 
programs we expect to make 
further steps in the future.
Ranking for each institution was decided by a complex equation involving fund 
spending with regard to student and faculty population.
OCTOBER 5, 1992
The two-month-old Computing Services Division has 
begun a series of changes designed to better ful?ll the campus user communitys needs 
for computing and communications services.
One change that cant be 
implemented very quickly is 
increasing the availability of 
terminals for student use at 
peak hours. Gary Aul?nger, 
manager of Cluster Services, 
said that usage at any point 
during the beginning of this 
year was greater than at the 
peak last year.
The clusters are busiest in 
the evening, said Jonathan 
Poole, a tutor at Wean 5419. 
They get crowded between 
8 and 12 p.m., especially on 
nights before big assignments 
are due.
Some statistics taken last 
year seem to re?ect Pooles remarks. A graph printed in the 
May 1992 issue of Cursor, the 
campus computing services 
newsletter, showing the percentage of computers in UCC 
100 in use each hour clearly 
revealed that the most usage 
comes at night. By 8 p.m., 80 
to 90 percent of the DEC stations and Mac II/IIIcxs are 
in use. One solution to this 
crowding at night would be 
for those people that can tailor 
their usage to use the clusters 
at non-peak hours, particularly in the morning and early afternoon, according to Cursor.
More and more classes are 
requiring students to use our 
facilities, Aul?nger said, as 
a result more and more people 
need the computers in the 
clusters.
Wallace Colyer, Andrew 
system manager, said in a post 
to the of?cial andrew Blackboard this week, The PC servers last week saw a new record 
peak usage of 5,208 unique 
users and 44,184 sessions. In 
each of the past three weeks 
old usage records have been 
broken. We anticipate demand 
to increase even further as the 
semester progresses.
Aul?nger said that solving 
the problem is not as simple as 
it might seem. The solution is 
not merely buying more terminals and increasing the space 
available in the clusters, but 
identifying which equipment 
is no longer meeting the needs 
of the campus community and 
replacing it.
For example, Aul?nger said 
that the 12 IBM PS/2s in UCC 
are in use less than 10 percent 
of the time, while the Macintosh IIcxs there are in use 
70 percent of the time. One 
Macintosh is the equivalent 
of nine or 10 IBM machines 
in terms of student utility, according to Aul?nger.
The SEs in Baker 140 are 
used by Computing Skills 
Workshop (CSW) classes during the day, but at night are 
not as useful as, say, IICis, 
Aul?nger said. By upgrading equipment, we would add 
more practicability. Aul?nger 
stressed that he would like 
to replace old machines with 
newer, compatible, and more 
powerful ones, like replacing 
older Macs with newer ones.
This doesnt come cheap. 
Any new machine with the 
kind of performance people 
expect would cost about 
$4,000, said Aul?nger.
He also said that every 
?scal year is a race to see 
what can be upgraded with 
the funds available, but emphasized that only one major 
purchase has been made so far 
this year, the new equipment 
for MMP.
Before the ?scal year ends, 
we hope to address several 
ideas. Its always a guessing 
game as to what were going to 
be able to do, Aul?nger said.
There seems to be some 
validity to the complaints of 
crowding in the clusters. CCon 
Jeffrey Siu said, Everywhere I 
go its crowded. Especially the 
Macintoshes at MMP. Because 
theyre new systems, everyone 
wants to go there, and everything is reserved until 2 am.
Other changes so far have 
included the closing of the 
Mudge cluster and the relocation of its DEC stations 
to Morewood Gardens. The 
equipment in the Morewood 
cluster now includes seven 
DEC stations and eight Macintosh SEs.
In addition, the cluster in 
Margaret Morrison was completely remodeled. The cluster 
received new paint, carpeting, 
chairs, and desks. The furnishings were rearranged to make 
working together in small 
groups by students easier. The 
most important improvement 
came with the replacement 
of the aging Mac SEs with 26 
new Mac IIcis.
Tracey Futhey, director of 
User Services, said that she is 
pretty happy with the improvements in MMP.
Futhey said that Carnegie 
Mellon is fortunate that the 
availability of computers is as 
good as it is and that the quality of the equipment is so high.
I have just in the past 
month or so been talking to 
people or other universities 
and as a result Im feeling 
pretty good about the level of 
quality in our own clusters, 
she said. For example, MIT 
just opened its ?rst computer 
lab with 17 Macs. Were doing pretty well, compared with 
other institutions.
Aul?nger was particularly 
concerned about another    
topic: the perception of CCons. In Persons Opinion in the 
Sept. 28 issue of The Tartan, 
two people expressed their 
displeasure with advice they 
had received from CCons.
I was very concerned that 
two people using the clusters 
said that the CCons were not 
as helpful as they could have 
been, Aul?nger said. Id like 
to see better training of the 
CCons and better staf?ng of 
the clusters.
Futhey said that she tends 
not to have direct interaction with the CCons except as 
anyone else might, asking for 
advice, and added that a week 
earlier she had received a 
message from a faculty member that said how helpful a  
CCon had been. One of  
the things were concerned 
with is getting feedback  
from anyone in the campus 
community who used our 
services, Aul?nger said. We 
can always use this type of  
information.
Students overcrowd, overuse clusters19921993
The caring of students for 
the welfare of other students 
is tremendous. It is critically 
important that our students are 
safe on this campus.
Michael Murphy
Dean of Student Affairs
OCTOBER 19, 1992
Carnegie Mellon President 
Robert Mehrabian gave his 
state-of-the-university address 
at the faculty senate meeting 
on Oct. 8. 
Speaking for an hour in the 
Adamson Wing of Baker Hall, 
Mehrabian spoke about ongoing construction projects, new 
faculty appointments, public 
relations, undergraduate education, and future projects.
Mehrabian was positive 
about Carnegie Mellon as a 
whole, saying Theres a lot of 
good things on this campus  
lots of good people and good 
will. However, the bulk of his 
speech focused on improving 
the state of undergraduate 
education. Mehrabian addressed Carnegie Mellons national rank of 19 according to 
the U.S. News and World Report 
survey, citing low graduation 
rates, low freshman retention, 
and low student satisfaction as 
reasons why Carnegie Mellon 
was not ranked higher. This is 
not a satisfactory level from my 
perspective, Mehrabian said.
Among other topics, Mehrabian said that construction of 
the new GSIA building would 
be completed in January, on 
budget and on schedule.
He said construction bids 
for the University Center will 
be collected by late November, 
and the chemistry department 
laboratory updates will be 
forthcoming. Mehrabian then 
?elded questions from faculty 
members, the advisory board, 
and the Board of Trustees. Faculty senate meets on the second Thursday of each month. 
President Mehrabian was 
originally scheduled to speak 
at the Sept. 10 meeting.
Mehrabian focuses on necessary progress during state of the university address
SEPTEMBER 14, 1992
Ardent peace activist Vincent Eirene organized another on-campus demonstration 
this week, protesting United 
States government funding of 
Carnegie Mellon research for 
supposed military purposes.
Eirene organized the event 
with students of an organization called Desert Flower, an 
activist group that opposes 
military intervention in the 
affairs of Iraq.
Eirene and a student 
held up a banner which read 
Bread not Bombs, the name 
of the event, while other students passed out ?yers. After a short speech in front of 
Doherty Hall to students as 
they walked to and from class, 
Eirene and 13 other people 
marched form Doherty Hall 
to Warner Hall, where he attempted to deliver a large loaf 
of Italian bread and a copy of 
the ?yer to University President Robert Mehrabian.
The ?yer was a photocopy 
of a page from the Pittsburgh 
Business Times that detailed 
outside funding to different 
colleges within Carnegie Mellon and The University of Pittsburgh. The loaf of bread was  
approximately two feet in 
length.
Mehrabian was not present on campus the day of the 
protest. Eirene, nine students, 
two photographers, and two 
cameramen were prevented 
from entering Warner Hall by 
Campus Police Chief James 
LaPaglia and two other Campus Police of?cers, to whom 
Eirene delivered the items.
Eirene made several accusations during his speech, 
most of them directed toward 
Carnegie Mellon and the supposed involvement of technical colleges in military projects. 
Eirene said to students, 
[CMU is] a military university. At Carnegie Mellon 
University more money is 
made from military research 
than from the tuition you 
pay. Eirene also alleged that 
Carnegie Mellon was directly 
involved in the development 
of computerized weapon systems used by American forces 
in Iraq.
Eirene dubbed the United 
States the empire when describing American foreign affairs in general. At the end of 
the event, Eirene also made 
a reference to the Biblical 
story of David and Goliath 
with regard to the small size 
of the demonstration and its 
possible impact on university 
policy.
University policy recognizes the right of students to 
organize orderly and peaceful 
demonstrations on campus. 
This policy does not address the right of persons not 
af?liated with Carnegie Mellon to hold such demonstrations.
Eirene is not af?liated 
with the university.
Students protest
university research     
File Photo
Peace activists marched on Warner Hall this week.

---------------------------------------------------

B6  thetartan.org/special The Tartan  April 15, 2013
20022003
SEPTEMBER 9, 2002
President Jared Cohon 
met with some 40 students 
and faculty last Thursday for 
an informal Town Hall meeting. The president commented on a range of campus issues including several violent 
crimes that have occurred 
in the last two semesters at 
Carnegie Mellon, his own appointment to the Homeland 
Security Advisory Council 
(HSAC), and the implications 
of partisan research.
He also addressed more 
perennial complaints of 
skyrocketing campus food 
prices, declining food quality, and campus apathy. The 
sexual assault on Aug. 25 was 
the most pressing item on the 
agenda.
There were four major 
incidents last year, and the 
aggravated indecent assault 
at Gesling Stadium on Aug. 
25, Cohon said. Technically 
it was not a rape because the 
student responded quickly 
and averted a rape.
Pennsylvania state law 
de?nes rape as intercourse, 
while aggravated indecent 
assault refers to any other 
type of penetration. 
Cohon also said that while 
no one has been arrested  
there is no suspect in the case 
 the Carnegie Mellon police 
were working closely with the 
citys sexual assault unit. The 
schools response includes reviewing which areas on campus need additional lighting 
and blue lights, which Cohon 
said would be completing in a 
matter of days.
University Police Chief 
Creig Doyle, who was also in 
attendance, urged students 
to take responsibility for their 
own safety.
It is especially frustrating 
for us to see, six days after 
the indecent assault on Aug. 
25th, another female student 
walking alone on the track, at 
one in the morning, using the 
same route use by the previous victim, Doyle said.
Undercover personnel at 
the stadium reported that the 
girl might have been intoxicated based on her unsteady 
gait, according to Doyle. Cohons presence on the otherwise nonacademic HSAC 
also stirred inquiry from the 
crowd.
This is something good 
for Carnegie Mellon because 
it raises the pro?le of the 
school, Cohon said. The 
council dispenses advice 
to President Bush through 
Homeland Security Advisor 
Tom Ridge and does not partake in policy formation, said 
Cohon. 
President holds Q & A 
session, focuses on safety
JANUARY 27, 2003
Yesterday, 75-year-old 
Pittsburgh resident Caryl 
Beal set her handbag down 
of Fifth Avenue, lay down on 
the sodden cement, and folded her hands together across 
her body. Beal stayed that 
way, motionless, for 15 minutes while snow continued to 
fall. She was one of about 150 
other protestors who participated in the die-in, an act 
of civil disobedience in show 
of opposition to the war.
I kept thinking, Beal 
said, I really feel strongly 
that we should not go to war.
A few thousand other protestors marched yesterday in 
opposition to war with Iraq. 
The protest, organized by 
local groups including the 
Thomas Merton Center and 
the Pittsburgh Organizing 
Group, was one of several 
dozen events held in Oakland since Friday, including street theater, vigils, live 
music, and lectures, packed 
into a three-day-long event 
entitled The Region Convergence Against War. Police 
barricaded Forbes and Fifth 
Avenue between Craig Street 
and Bigelow, and allowed 
protestors to march and demonstrate.
Federal agents were there 
to investigate a tip that alluded to the assassination of the 
President, said Michael Healey, a lawyer who represents 
activists who was at the protest primarily to observe and 
get a sense of what well need 
to do if people are arrested. 
A ?ier advocating the assassination of President Bush, 
found last week, brought in 
a greater number of secret 
servicemen, he said. The ?ier 
read, Kill Bush: Take to the 
Streets for Vengeance. Tim 
Vining, executive director for 
the Thomas Merton Center, 
said none of the groups who 
organized the protest was involved in making that ?ier.
We believe that was an 
attempt to distract us away 
from our message, which is 
why were against the war, 
the humanitarian disaster of 
this war, Vining said.
The protest attracted people from out of town, as well 
as about 40 Carnegie Mellon 
students. Nathaniel Wesley 
Filardo, ?rst-year physics 
major, held a sign that read, 
Disarm CMU. According 
to Filardo, Carnegie Mellon 
stands to gain from Bushs 
war on Iraq because of the 
software engineering institutes defense contract with 
the U.S. government.
My sign is to discourage 
them from making money 
at the expense of American 
lives, Filardo said.
A group of Carnegie Mellon students met in Kirr Commons and went to the protest, 
which began at the Pitt Student Union Lawn, chanting, 
Drop Bush, Not Bombs.
People came from other 
parts of Pennsylvania, Ohio 
and Connecticut. Marisa 
Niemiece drove two hours 
from West Union, W.Va., with 
?ve people from her church 
group. Niemiece, 26, said she 
came out because protesting 
is what she can do to make a 
difference.
Anti-war rally draws thousands
FEBRUARY 10, 2003
Carnegie Mellon professor Paul Fischbecks research, 
published a decade ago, could 
play an important role in discovering the cause of the Columbia space shuttle ?re. 
The report warned of the 
importance of heat tiles to 
shuttle survival and the catalogued potential threats to 
these tiles. NASA may have 
tragically miscalculated the 
threat of surface damage incurred by the shuttle during 
liftoff.
Video footage of the liftoff shows that a piece of debris fell off the Columbias 
external fuel tank and struck 
the left wing of the shuttle. 
Though this debris was a 
chunk of foam weighing less 
than three pounds, the impact 
produced a trail of dust.
Theres no question that a 
tile was damaged, said Fischbeck, a professor of the social 
and decision sciences and environmental and public policy 
departments. The question 
is, how severely was it [the 
tile] damaged. The tiles were 
never designed to withstand 
bombardment on liftoff.
Heat tiles are important 
to shuttle safety. The loss of a 
single tile puts added stress on 
surrounding tiles. The potential threat is that these neighboring tiles also fail, creating 
a zipper effect of subsequent 
tile failure. 
When the tiling malfunctions, the aluminum shell becomes exposed to intense heat 
and turbulence, eventually resulting in burn-through and 
the failure of critical system 
components. 
Heat tile maintenance has 
always been a potential Achilles heel of the shuttle program, said Robert Sekerka, 
Carnegie Mellon physics professor and NASA committee 
member.
Sekerka is a chairman 
of the Discipline Working 
Group for Materials Science 
for NASAs Of?ce of Biological 
and Physical Research.
Each tile is individually 
handcrafted and af?xed to the 
aluminum skin of the shuttle 
with an adhesive. This bonding process is delicate and 
time sensitive  the adhesive must be applied by hand 
within a small time window. 
The process of af?xing heat 
tiles cannot be performed too 
far in advance of the shuttle 
launch or the bonds holding 
the tiles in place will break 
down.
The tiles themselves resemble oversized foam Klondike bars. Each shuttle has over 
25,000 tiles of various shapes 
and sizes af?xed to its skin. 
According to Fischbeck, a typical mission will result in damage to approximately 30 tiles, 
though on some missions, up 
to several hundred tiles have 
been damaged.
Its like driving behind 
a gravel truck and having 
your windshield dinged, 
Fischbeck said, alluding to 
the vulnerability of heat tiles 
to debris falling off the fuel  
tank.
NASAs initial analysis of 
the debris impact on the shuttle concluded that potential 
damage would not be critical 
to the orbiter, the body of the 
shuttles main component. 
The simulation focused on a 
theoretical case of damage 
and was not sensitive to variability in the scenario. Damage to the left wing appears to 
be a critical component in the 
loss of the Columbia shuttle.
According to NASA reports, sensors in the left 
wheel well indicated a sharp 
increase in temperature at 
7:52 a.m. on Sunday morning 
during re-entry. 
Over the course of seven 
minutes, several break-line 
sensors in the left wing also 
showed spikes in temperature. The left wing sensor 
failed completely just two 
minutes before losing contact. 
Drag was detected on the left 
wing of the shuttle, causing 
two steering jets to ?re in an 
attempt to correct the problem. Communications with 
the shuttle were lost at 7:59 
a.m.
Even if NASA had more  
accurately diagnosed the 
damaged wing, few options 
exist to correct the problem.
Professors research sheds light on crash
NOVEMBER 18, 2002
Grace Yoon, a driver for 
Phi Kappa Thetas (Phi Kap)
buggy team, crashed into a 
parking meter pole at 25 mph 
and received several lacerations to her face last weekend. 
She doesnt know when, if at 
all, she will be back inside a 
buggy. She crashed when her 
headband came down over 
her eyes and blinded her, 
causing her to swerve and hit 
the pole in the chute. A ?rstyear H&SS student, Yoon had 
driven for Phi Kap for twoand-a-half months before the 
accident.
Im not going to say it was 
traumatizing or anything, but 
after an accident youre kind 
of shaken up a bit, Yoon said. 
Its a normal feeling for a person to have after an accident.
Yoon said that she loves 
driving the buggy and does 
not believe that anyone was 
at fault for the accident. However, she is not sure she wants 
to return to the road.
I really would like to 
do it, but I have a recurring 
thought of crashing again. 
Also, my family isnt comfortable with my doing it since 
the accident, Yoon said. Its 
something I still have to think 
about.
This year, race day falls on 
April 11  almost ?ve months 
away  but buggy practice is 
well underway and will end 
on the weekend of Nov. 23.
Despite the events extensive safety regulations, the 
season has already seen its 
share of accidents.
The same weekend that 
Yoon sustained her injuries, 
Cecilia Ikedas Fringe-team 
buggy went up on two wheels 
and veered into the protective 
hay bales. Ikeda received several cuts to her lip.
Lucia Cytrynowicz, a 
driver for the CIA, caught her 
right hand inside the spoke of 
the buggys front wheel while 
moving at slow speed. She injured her thumb.
Cytrynowicz, a sophomore sciences and humanities 
scholar, says that her thumb is 
much better, and she is able to 
write with that hand again.
CIAs team had another accident earlier this semester, 
involving a buggy scraping a 
hay bale. Both the driver and 
the buggy rolled again the 
next day. Ikeda and Cytrynowicz say that their accidents 
were isolated events, and that 
their chances of being seriously hurt are slim.
The injury I had is very 
unlikely to occur at high 
speeds since the spokes of the 
wheel would have been moving too quickly for my thumb 
to go in between them, 
Cytrynowicz said.
Despite the accidents, the 
vast majority of buggy drivers love their jobs and accept 
the risks. Yoon, Ikeda, and 
Cytrynowicz all agree that the 
bene?ts of buggy driving outweigh the disadvantages.
Cytrynowicz cites excitement, people, parties, pancakes on Saturday, and free 
massages as some of her favorite aspects of driving a 
buggy.
Its not as dangerous as 
it seems. I knew the risks 
gong into it, and I was really 
nervous at ?rst, but it was really fun once I did it, Yoon 
said, adding that driving 
has allowed her to meet new  
people.
Buggy accidents trouble the weekend free-rolls
File Photo
Hundreds of Pittsburgh residents and visitors gathered outside the Carnegie Mellon Software Engineering 
Institute for a protest march as a part of the Regional Convergence Against War in Oakland this weekend. 
File Photo
Cohon addressed student questions in Rangos Hall on Thursday.Its not as dangerous as it seems. 
I knew the risks gong into it, and 
I was really nervous at ?rst, but it 
was really fun once I did it.
Grace Yoon
Phi Kap buggy driver
CMU may join college complex in Qatar
FEBRUARY 10, 2003
Carnegie Mellon may soon 
have a campus in Qatar, Provost Mark Kamlet announced 
at an impromptu faculty senate meeting last Tuesday.
[The Qatar Foundation] 
came to us, wanting to partner with great universities. 
Their goal is pretty audacious  theyre building 
the next Alexandria in their 
minds, and they want to 
know if we want to be a part 
of it, Kamlet said.
The Qatar Foundation 
was started in 1995 by 
Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa 
Al Thani (the Emir and head 
of the State of Qatar) and 
his wife, Sheika Mouza Bint 
Nasser Al-Misnad, the chairperson of the Foundation.
In 1997, the Qatar Foundation began to develop Education City, located ?ve miles 
west of Doha (Qatars capital). Education Citys mission is to provide the country 
with programs of study and 
research.
It has already netted the 
skills of such institutions as 
Cornell Universitys medical 
college and Virginia Commonwealth Universitys design and engineering programs.
According to the plan, 
Carnegie Mellon would put 
together a curriculum for 
undergraduate business and 
computer programs   technology, engineering, and 
information are crucial to 
the countrys rich oil-based 
economy. Carnegie Mellon 
would then select students 
 25 at ?rst, from all over 
the world, including Qatar 
 and send faculty to Education City. The Foundation 
would supply the land, stateof-the-art buildings and resources, and, according to 
Kamlet, more money than 
Carnegie Mellon has been 
offered in a long time.
Though plans are far from 
?nalized, and both Carnegie 
Mellon and the Foundation 
are a long way from making 
their ?nal decisions, Kamlet 
says Carnegie Mellon has 
many reasons to consider 
the deal very seriously. He 
mentioned during Tuesdays 
presentation that the Qatar 
plan was consistent with the 
universitys goal of internationalizing.

---------------------------------------------------

April 15, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/special  B720112012
University celebrates occasion with renaming, ceremony
SEPTEMBER 12, 2011
Students, faculty, and staff 
woke up Wednesday morning to the unprecedented 
news that former industrialist 
William S. Dietrich II had announced his intention to gift a 
$265 million fund to Carnegie 
Mellon University.
The gift, which becomes 
effective upon his passing, is 
the largest donation to Carnegie Mellon in the universitys 
history, and one of the largest 
gifts by an individual to a private education institution in 
the United States.
In honor of the gift from 
the Pittsburgh native and 
Carnegie Mellon trustee, the 
university held a surprise day 
of festivities Wednesday and 
announced the renaming of 
the College of Humanities and 
Social Sciences to the Marianna Brown Dietrich College 
of Humanities and Social Sciences.
The celebration began at 
11 a.m. with a ceremonial 
announcement in a tent on 
the Cut, where distinguished 
guests  including Board 
of Trustees Chairman Ray 
Lane, Carnegie Mellon President Jared Cohon, and Dietrich himself  addressed the 
crowd. A selection of students 
from all colleges were invited 
to attend the announcement; 
they gathered at the Fence, 
where they received T-shirts to 
celebrate the days events.
During the ceremony, Dietrich spoke of his affection for 
Carnegie Mellon and his faith 
that its students and faculty 
members would continue to 
break barriers with its interdisciplinary thinking and complex problem-solving strategies.
This university puts Pittsburgh on anybodys world 
map of great research cities, 
Dietrich said. Brilliant people 
come here as students and faculty, and their presence in our 
community adds something 
extraordinary.
Initially, Dietrich did not 
specify for the funds to go to 
any one particular college or 
purpose. But keeping in mind 
Bill Dietrichs own interests 
[in history], we named the 
College of Humanities and 
Social Sciences for him, and 
we expect a substantial portion of the gift will go to support H&SS, Cohon said in an 
interview.
A plaque dedicated to Dietrichs mother, new H&SS 
namesake Marianna Brown 
Dietrich, was unveiled at the 
ceremony and will be mounted in the entrance of Baker 
Hall.
Dietrich shared a few personal anecdotes about his 
mother and family with the 
ceremonys attendees.
One of my more notable 
exploits was setting off a ?recracker in a pencil sharpener. 
The air was fogged with pencil 
shavings, delivered a straightfaced Dietrich in front of the 
audience. Pulling my bacon 
out of the ?re in the pencil 
sharpener escapade was one 
of my mothers ?nest hours.
Students presented the 
donor with a model of the 
Fence, painted with the words 
Thank You, Bill, identical 
to the Fences actual veneer 
Wednesday. Following the of?cial announcement ceremony, students surrounded the 
real Fence for a series of commemorative photographs with 
university leaders.
After photos were taken, 
several students and special 
guests attended an inviteonly luncheon in Rangos 
Hall. Guests were served a 
three-course meal, catered by 
CulinArt, and watched a presentation that featured Dietrichs friends and colleagues 
speaking of his accomplishments.
During the remainder of 
the day, the Carnegie Mellon 
administration surprised students and faculty with free 
memorabilia, food, and drinks 
to commemorate the day. The 
celebration ended at 8 p.m. 
with a free outdoor concert 
featuring the band Guster and 
a ?reworks show.
Activities Board was in 
charge of arranging things for 
the Guster concert, said Joe 
Burgess, a senior information 
systems major and one of the 
heads of AB Tech. We werent 
told much about the event; the 
university did a really good 
job keeping the various events 
a surprise.
Despite the short notice 
given, student attendance 
was high throughout the days 
events. While our aspirations 
were incredibly high for this 
event, I think I can con?dently 
say that it surpassed every one 
of our expectations, Dean 
of Student Affairs Gina Casalegno stated via an email interview. The genuine excitement from our student body 
and entire university community was palpable throughout 
the day. I was deeply touched 
by students re?ections on Mr. 
Dietrichs speech and by their 
interactions with him at the 
mornings events.
While the ceremony may 
be over, Dietrichs gift is still 
yet to come.
The important thing to understand is that Bill Dietrichs 
vision is long term, said John 
Lehoczky, dean of H&SS. On 
Bill Dietrichs death, which 
will happen sometime in the 
future  I hope a while  this 
trust will be created.... The 
draws that are coming from 
the Dietrich trust will be relatively small ... so the Dietrich 
fund has a chance to grow at a 
faster rate.
File Photo 
William S. Dietrich II talks to the crowd about his childhood.
Zuckerberg visits CMU on tour
NOVEMBER 14, 2011
Mark Zuckerberg, the 
founder and CEO of Facebook, spoke to and answered 
questions from approximately 900 Carnegie Mellon students on Tuesday in Wiegand 
Gym at the University Center.
Carnegie Mellon was one 
of three universities that 
Zuckerberg chose to visit on 
this trip. The other two were 
Harvard University and the 
Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology.
When we organized this 
trip to go see a few colleges, 
Carnegie Mellon was at the 
top of the list, Zuckerberg 
explained at his talk. The 
students at Carnegie Mellon 
who have come to Facebook 
are among our most productive people.... I dont know 
what you do to them.
We beat them, joked Associate Dean of the School of 
Computer Science Mark Stehlik, who moderated Zuckerbergs talk. At the event, 
Stehlik ?rst asked Zuckerberg some questions about 
Facebooks history with Carnegie Mellon and recruiting, 
and then he opened the ?oor 
to preselected student questions from the audience.
Most of the questions 
were about Facebook, and if a 
question vaguely touched on 
Zuckerbergs personal life, he 
would bring it back to Facebook somehow, said junior 
electrical and computer engineering major Alex Klarfeld, 
who was in the audience during the speech.
During the event, Zuckerberg frequently stated that 
the future of Facebook and 
social media would be the 
application of the consumer 
knowledge gathered by social 
media to other industries.
Were just starting to get 
to a place where everyone 
has these advanced smartphones, and we recently just 
got to a place where you can 
assume that everyone has a 
Facebook or Twitter account 
with all of these social connections, Zuckerberg explained during his speech. I 
tell the company all the time 
that the last ?ve years have 
been mostly about ramping 
up this graph of connections 
... and the next ?ve years will 
[be] about all the things we 
can build on top of that.
However, junior physics 
major Joel Lu surprised everyone at the event when he 
described how he had hidden a device underneath the 
stage. 
At the end of all the questions, a crazed Zuckerberg 
fanboy stood up and started 
shouting that he had a question for Mr. Zuckerberg,  
Klarfeld recalled.
Stehlik reluctantly allowed him to ask him his 
question, since he was acting strangely during the entirety of Zuckerbergs talk, 
Klarfeld explained, describing the situation. He stood 
up and told us all that he had 
something for Mr. Zuckerberg hidden under the stage, 
and went on a long detailed 
explanation about how he 
snuck into Wiegand. I know 
that most of us were pretty 
terri?ed that there was a 
bomb under the stage.
The night before ... I duct 
taped together a wireless 
router to my iPod and then 
hooked it up to some speakers, Lu explained at the end 
of the events Q & A session. 
I then snuck into the UC at 
night and hid under the stage 
for a while to set up the device.
According to Lu, he had 
intended to remotely activate 
the device, which would then 
play his question to Zuckerberg. 
However, he explained 
that the device did not work 
because someone unplugged 
the power cable before the 
event.
Although Lu later admitted that what he did was not 
the most intelligent thing 
to do, he explained that 
he wanted to stand out to 
Zuckerberg from among the 
nearly 1,000 students at the 
event.
On the whole, it was a 
fairly entertaining talk, and 
I think it really got people 
pumped up about working 
at Facebook, Klarfeld remarked. Though, after the 
whole fanboy incident, I do 
not think Zuckerberg will be 
returning to Carnegie Mellon 
anytime soon.
Ladner leaves package pickup in mailroom
JANUARY 30, 2012 
Students receiving packages to their SMC addresses last 
week may have noticed that 
their pickup noti?cation came 
from an unfamiliar email address. 
Instead of the ladner@ address that students have come 
to expect, sabrown@ appeared in the from line.
The response that met the 
change was overwhelming. A 
We Miss You, Ladner Facebook group was set up, which 
gained over 250 likes in just a 
few days. 
Speculation about fraudulent emails and stories of mailroom mishaps almost immediately began circulating online. 
One of the stories, quoted 
on the Overheard at Carnegie Mellon Facebook group, 
questioned whether Ladner 
had ended up in an epic ?st?ght with one of the mailroom 
robots who tried setting packages on ?re.
Mark Ladner, the man behind the email address students have become acquainted with, said it was not such 
an interesting story. Instead, 
Ladner has simply moved 
locations from the University Centers mailroom to the 
loading dock at the Mellon 
Institute. 
Im looking forward to 
working at the Mellon Institute, Ladner said. Im not 
going to miss the hard work 
[at the mailroom], but I will 
miss the students.... Its rare 
that a person can have a job 
that makes a large number of 
people happy on a daily basis. 
I personally know what its 
like to order something and 
how happy it makes me when 
I know its delivered.
Ive made so many friends 
along the way, Ladner said. I 
get emails every so often from 
former students that just want 
to keep in touch. 
However, even Ladner 
was surprised by the student 
response to his departure 
from the mailroom. I feel 
really blessed to have had a 
job where I could affect so  
many people, Ladner said. 
I tried to put myself in the  
students place and realize that for each package,  
there was someone waiting 
for it.
File Photo 
Mark Ladner leaves UC mailroom for work at Mellon Institute.
Constant threats disturb Pitt campus
APRIL 9, 2012 
The University of Pittsburgh has been the target of 
over 20 bomb threats since 
mid-February, the majority of 
which have been made in the 
past few weeks.
The series of threats began 
on Feb. 13 when a threat was 
made against the Chevron 
Science Center, where Pitts 
chemistry department is located. 
Since then, simultaneous threats have been made 
against locations on the Pitt 
campus, including dorm 
buildings. In addition, a threat 
has been made against Point 
Park University.
After the ?rst threat, another bomb threat was leveled against the Cathedral of 
Learning on March 14. The 
Cathedral houses multiple 
Pitt classrooms and has over 
42 ?oors.
From that point on, the 
threats against Pitt have become more frequent. Threats 
have been placed against the 
Cathedral of Learning and the 
Chevron Science Center on 
multiple occasions. Other targeted buildings include David 
Lawrence Hall, Posvar Hall, 
Litch?eld Towers, the Music 
Building, the Frick Fine Arts 
Building, and Victoria Hall.
The threats have differed 
in their delivery. Some were 
written in Pitt bathrooms, 
while others were emailed in 
via reporters.
One of the threats against 
Litch?eld Towers was made 
at 2 a.m., forcing a nighttime 
evacuation of students from 
their dormitories.
The Pitt Police Department 
released a statement offering 
a reward of $50,000 for information leading to the arrest 
and conviction of the person 
responsible for the threats. 
Pitt is stating its appeal to the 
public to assist the University 
of Pittsburgh Police and FBI 
with their investigation, the 
department said in the message.
The constant threats and 
disruptions have taken a toll 
on the Pitt community. 
Pitt chemistry Ph.D. student Marshall McGoff said, 
People get desensitized to 
it, because you get these text 
messages. It got to the point 
two days ago, where people 
were like, Oh, therell probably be a bomb threat at 10 
oclock. People were almost 
joking about it. But then, the 
last few days, someone put 
in a threat for three or four 
buildings at once. So it wasnt 
just one building, it was multiple buildings.... If they dont 
catch them soon, people are 
just going to stop going to 
class. Its very unsettling to be 
a Pitt student right now.
McGoff also spoke to the 
effect the threats have had on 
his studies.
The other day I was growing up cultures for protein puri?cation, and its a very strict 
timeline, McGoff said. 
If you miss that window, 
you have to start over the 
next day. There was a bomb 
threat at 10, and I was just 
in the window to continue 
my work. Theres been days 
where theres a bomb threat, 
and okay, I cant do any work 
today, because what I needed 
to get done, I need to get done 
now.
On Sunday, Pitt police announced several new security 
measures, adding to the inconvenience. 
Under the new measures, 
bags will not be allowed into 
buildings, everyone entering 
a building will be required to 
show a Pitt ID, and non-Pitt 
students will not be allowed in 
residence halls.
Pitt Vice Chancellor for 
Public Affairs Robert Hill told 
Essential Public Radio that the 
university takes the threats 
and their effects  including 
the emotional toll  seriously. 
We have included in our noti?cations information about 
counseling services available 
to members of the university community, especially 
students who would like to 
receive guidance counseling 
during these stressful times, 
Hill said in the interview.

---------------------------------------------------

B8  thetartan.org/special The Tartan  April 15, 2013
Alumni Calendar
Carnival Weekend 2013 Event Locations
The following list includes events that are exclusively available to alumni or that encourage 
alumni attendance. A schedule of general Carnival events can be seen in the Pillbox Carnival calendar on page C15.
AB
AB Tech Alumni & Student Mixer. TV Lounge, 
West Wing. Saturday, 35 p.m.
Alpha Chi Omega
Mock Wine & Cheese Reception. Chapter 
House, Greek Quad, 1069 Morewood Ave. 
Thursday, 7:309:30 p.m.
Alumni Brunch. Greek Quad, Chapter House, 
1069 Morewood Ave. Saturday, 11 a.m.1 
p.m.
Alpha Epsilon Pi
Parent/Alumni Bagel Brunch. Chapter House, 
Greek Quad, 1091 Morewood Ave. Saturday, 
10 a.m.1 p.m.
Alpha Phi Omega 
Alumni Concession Shifts. Midway Concession 
Stand. Saturday, noon2 p.m.
Carnival Meeting and Mixer. Coffee Lounge, 
Baker Hall. Saturday, 25 p.m.
Alumni Association
All-Campus BBQ. Merson Courtyard, University Center. Rain Location: Wiegand Gym, 
University Center. Friday, 11:30 a.m.2 p.m.
Buggy Alumni Association
Reception. Coffee Lounge, Baker Hall. Friday, 
12:302:30 p.m.
Carnegie Mellon Black Alumni Association
Lunch & Meeting. Gregg Hall, Porter Hall, 
Room 100. Saturday, 11:30 a.m.1:30 p.m.
Carnegie Institute of Technology (CIT)
Buggy Breakfast. Singleton Room, Roberts 
Engineering Hall. Friday, 911 a.m.
10th Anniversary Celebration for the Department of Biomedical Engineering. Singleton 
Room, Roberts Engineering Hall. Friday, 
 26 p.m. (invitation only)
4th Annual Materials Science & Engineering 
Alumni Carnival Deck Party. 3300 Corridor, 
Wean Hall. Friday, 46 p.m.
Mechanical Engineering Lunch & Lab Tours. 
Courtyard & Lobby, Scaife Hall. Saturday, 
11:30 a.m.2 p.m.
Civil & Environmental Engineering Alumni 
Reception. Porter Hall, Room 107E. Friday, 
4:306:30 p.m.
SCS/ECE Alumni Reception. Gates Center, 
Room 6115. Saturday, 13 p.m.
Delta Delta Delta
Tri Delta Pansy Brunch. Chapter House, Greek 
Quad, 1017 Morewood Ave. Saturday, 13 
p.m.
Delta Gamma
Alumnae Tea. Chapter House, 5031 Forbes 
Avenue. Saturday, 11:30 a.m.1:30 p.m.
Delta Tau Delta
Alumni Reception. Chapter House, 105 Margaret Morrison St. Saturday, 1:30 p.m.
Delta Upsilon
Alumni & Student Dinner. Chapter House, 101 
Margaret Morrison Street. Friday, 6:30 p.m.
CDUA Meeting. Chapter House, 101 Margaret 
Morrison Street. Saturday, 35 p.m.
Luncheon. Schatz Dining Room, University 
Center. Saturday, 11:30 a.m.1 p.m.
Dietrich College of Humanities & Social Sciences (H&SS)
Reunion. Terrace Tent, Baker Hall. Saturday, 
11 a.m.1:30 p.m.
Heinz College
Annual Golf Outing. Meadowink Golf Course, 
4076 Bulltown Road, Murrysville, Pa. Friday, 10 a.m.1 p.m.
Saturday Volunteer Event. Frick Park. Saturday, 9 a.m.1 p.m.
Alumni & Student Reception. Room 1001 & 
Foyer, Hamburg Hall. Saturday, 35 p.m.
Hispanic & Latino Alumni Association
Meeting. Activities Room, University Center. 
Saturday, 1011 a.m.
Zumba Networking Mixer. Activities Room, 
University Center. Saturday, 11 a.m.noon.
Information Systems
Program Block Party. Porter Hall, Room 222. 
Friday, 46 p.m.
Kappa Alpha Theta
Alumnae Brunch. Chapter House, Greek Quad, 
1077 Morewood Ave. Saturday, 10 a.m.
noon.
Kappa Delta Rho
Alumni Reception. Dowd Room, University 
Center. Saturday, 46 p.m.
Kappa Kappa Gamma
Alumnae BBQ. Chapter House, Greek Quad, 
1065 Morewood Ave. Saturday, 4:305:30 
p.m.
Kiltie Band
Alumni & Student Reception. Alumni Lounge, 
University Center. Thursday, 4:306:30 p.m.
Law Alumni Network
Law Alumni Network & Pre-Law Program 
Reception. TV Lounge, West Wing. Friday, 
46 p.m. 
Mellon College of Science
Ice Cream Social. Terrace Tent, Baker Hall. 
Friday, 23:30 p.m.
Pi Kappa Alpha
Luncheon. Connan Room, University Center. 
Friday, noon3:30 p.m. 
Meeting. Giant Eagle Auditorium, Baker Hall. 
Saturday, noon3:30 p.m.
ROTC & Military
Alumni Welcome Breakfast. ROTC Tent, Frew 
Street. (Rain Location: Danforth Lounge, 
University Center.) Saturday, 10 a.m.noon.
School of Architecture
SoArch Alumni Reception. DFab Lab, Margaret 
Morrison, Room C7. Saturday, 13 p.m.
Archi-Party-Sponsored by Class of 2002(+1). 
Schenley Park Visitor Center, 101 Panther 
Hollow Road. Saturday, 79 p.m.
School of Design
Alumni Reunion. Margaret Morrison, Room 
215. Saturday, 13 p.m.
ScotchnSoda
75th Anniversary Reception. Danforth Lounge, 
University Center. Friday, 67:30 p.m.
ScotchnSoda Production: Assassins. Rangos 
Hall, University Center. Thursday, 8 p.m.; 
Friday, 2 p.m., 11 p.m.; Saturday, 2 p.m.,
 7 p.m.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon
38th Annual Kickoff to Spring Carnival at the 
Luna. Coppertops, 2132 East Carson Street. 
Thursday, 9 p.m.
Dinner with Mystery Sandwiches. Chapter 
House, Greek Quad, 1085 Morewood Ave. 
Friday, 6 p.m.
BBQ. Chapter House, Greek Quad, 1085 Morewood Ave. Saturday, noon.
Return to Chiodos. Dukes Upper Deck Cafe, 
122 West Eighth Avenue, Homestead, Pa. 
Saturday, 7:30 p.m.
Sigma Phi Epsilon
Alumni BBQ. Chapter House, Greek Quad, 
1057 Morewood Ave. Friday, 14:30 p.m.
Soccer
Alumni Brunch. TV Lounge, West Wing. Saturday, 10:3011:30 a.m.
Alumni Soccer Game. Soccer Field, adjacent 
to Gesling Stadium. Saturday, 11 a.m.1:30 
p.m.
Soccer Alumni Reception. Piano Room, Mudge 
House. Saturday, 56:30 p.m.
Tepper School of Business
Registration Open. Main Lobby, Tepper School 
of Business. Friday, 3 p.m.
Alumni Tepper B**rs. Main Lobby & Courtyard, Tepper School of Business. Friday, 5 
p.m.
Registration & Continental Breakfast. Rachel 
Mellon Walton Room, Tepper School of 
Business. Saturday, 9 a.m.
Tepper School Tour. Rachel Mellon Walton 
Room, Tepper School of Business. Saturday, 
9:15 a.m.
State of the Tepper School of Business. Boardroom, Posner Center. Saturday, 11:30 a.m.
Afternoon Tepper Tea: Faculty Meet & Greet. 
Posner Center. Saturday, 3:30 p.m.
Tepper All-Class Reunion Celebration. Phipps 
Conservatory & Botanical Gardens. Saturday, 6:3010 p.m.
The Tartan
Alumni and Student Mixer. Tartan Of?ce, 
Room 314, University Center. Friday, 
2:304:30 p.m.
Other Alumni Reunions
Student Alumni Relations Council (SARC) 
35th Anniversary Mixer. General Motors 
Dining Room, University Center. Friday, 
4:306 p.m.
Legacy Family & Student Reception. Alumni 
Lounge, University Center. Saturday, 24 
p.m.
Class of 1988 25th Reunion Celebration. 
Schatz Dining Room, University Center. 
Saturday, 45 p.m.
1960s Reception: 196469. Connan Room, 
University Center. Saturday, 46 p.m.
Decade of the 1970s Reception. Danforth 
Lounge, University Center. Saturday, 46 
p.m.
Decade of the 1990s Happy Hour. General 
Motors Dining Room, University Center. 
Saturday, 46 p.m.
Decade of the 1980s Reception. Schatz Dining 
Room, University Center. Saturday, 57 p.m.
Young Alumni Happy Hour. Tartans Pavilion, 
Resnik House. Saturday, 57 p.m.
Miscellaneous
Ballroom Dance Club Reception. Activities 
Room, University Center. Saturday, 23 p.m.
Fraternity & Sorority Reception. Tartans Pavilion, Resnik House. Saturday, 22:45 p.m.
Student Life Reception. Mudge House. Saturday, 34 p.m. 
Carnegie Mellon Ice Hockey Alumni Game. 
Harmarville Bladerunners, 66 Alpha Drive 
W. Saturday, 35 p.m.
Carnegie Mellon Baseball Club Hall of Fame 
Dinner. Connan Room, University Center. 
Sunday, 46 p.m.

---------------------------------------------------

04.15.13 Volume 107, Issue 24
Fractured Fairytales
Carnival Preview

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Read this weeks comics to get into the mood 
for Carnival.
11
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2013 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Jennifer Coloma EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Josh Smith
PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Laura Scherb COMICS EDITOR Kairavi Chahal
ART EDITOR Annette Ko PHOTO EDITOR Kate Groschner 
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Patrick Gage-Kelley
8
35710
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about Carnival 
and unhealthy obsessions with David Carradine.
3
...diversions
...this week only
Yoram Bauman
The worlds first and only stand-up economist 
visits Carnegie Mellon.
3
Joshua Bell
The rock star violinist performs with the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra. 
4
Quantum Theatre
Dream of Autumn features lighting and sets by 
Carnegie Mellon faculty members. 
5
Nutella
These Nutella cooking recipes will help you 
survive until Carnival.
6
Oakland Forever
The Celebrating Oakland festival took place in 
Schenley Plaza on Friday.
7
Midway Map
Check out this map for booth themes and 
locations and other Midway attractions.
8
Film screening
The Carnegie Mellon International Film Festival 
concludes with a film on the Arab Spring.
10
Did You Know?
Did you know that Carnegie Tech once had a 
girl enter Glamours Best Dressed Girl Contest?
10Puzzles
Try to get these puzzles done before Carnival, 
because we know you wont do em after.
13
Horoscopes
This weeks horoscopes give you songs to live 
by during Carnival.
14
Calendar
Consult this weeks calendar for all of this 
years Carnival happenings.
15

---------------------------------------------------

community
pillbox 04.15.133
Bauman supplies big laughs
Stand-up economist entertains audience in McConomy
McConomy Auditorium was about half-full with 
students and faculty members last Tuesday 
afternoon. Despite the mixed ages and ethnic 
backgrounds, one thing these attendees had in 
common was their interest in economics  and of 
course, in comedy. But then, who wouldnt be up 
for a good, educational laugh over intelligent jokes? 
After all, we go to Carnegie Mellon.
Cheers and applause went to Yoram Bauman, who 
called himself the worlds ?rst and only stand-up 
economist. Bauman graduated with a B.A. in 
mathematics from Reed College and went on to the 
University of Washington for his masters degree 
and Ph.D. in economics. His goal is to spread joy 
to the world through economics comedy; to reform 
economics education; and to implement carbon 
pricing  preferably through a revenue-neutral tax 
shift involving lower taxes on things like working, 
saving, investing, and higher taxes on things we 
dont like (e.g. carbon).
From his introduction until the very end of the show, 
Bauman was constantly in character. He did not let 
the fear of offending someone get in the way of his 
jokes. For example, he started the show by showing 
off his capitalism shirt he bought in China. The 
political irony immediately captured the crowds 
attention.
He went on to share his experiences from his recent 
visit to Beijing. Bauman roused further excitement 
with his Chronic Hyperin?ation in Hell theory drawn 
from Chinese belief, explaining it as a drastic 
increase in money supply which we called M4.  
The crowd loved the intelligent pun and correlation 
to economic money measurements M1, M2, and 
M3. His explanation of the Chinese tradition of 
burning joss paper for their ancestors  and how 
that causes hell to be ?lled with money  struck a 
chord with the culturally diverse audience.
Bauman later incorporated one of our favorite 
technologies of the day  apps  by exploring the 
new way of transferring money. His punch line was 
de?nitely one to stick: Theres an app for everyone 
 even the dead ones. He went on to jest about 
how Chinese tradition believes in magic and Social 
Darwinism, but not Darwinism.
Bauman then poked fun at the contradictory 
Singaporean policy of calling themselves liberal, 
when at the same time, the government has 
its ?ngers at everybodys throats.  Uh-oh, be 
careful. Dont talk about politics, race, religion, 
the government, or people named Lee. Dont say 
anything that might offend anybody,  the comedian 
said, quoting the Singaporeans he had encountered. 
Later on, Bauman talked about his own career and 
about how he got to where he is now. Im a little 
embarrassed to say that my video has recently just 
got a million hits, he said. Its surprising cause Im 
not a Korean pop star or anything.
Some of Baumans last jokes involved his explanation 
of different perspectives from varying types of 
economics through S*** Happens. He ?rst made 
the distinction between microeconomics ad 
macroeconomics. The former stresses that the price 
of s*** is determined by supply and demand; 
the latter simply expresses, Oh, s***! He went 
on to de?ne classical macro, Keynesian macro, 
neo-Keynesian macro, neoclassical synthesis, 
econometrics, environmental economics, supplyside economics, behavioral economics, and the 
Australian School of Economics.
People always wonder why economics always 
seems so confusing, Bauman said. Its because 
they do not want you to ?gure out that the entire 
economy is empty. Though Bauman makes fun of 
economics and the system a lot, it takes someone 
knowledgeable and familiar with the ?eld to make 
one-tenth of the jokes and comments that he made. 
Amy Tsien | Junior Staffwriter
Jonathan Leung | Assistant Photo Editor
Advice for awkward people
Dear Patrick,
I enjoy David Carradines 
movies a few nights a 
week. My friends are 
really judgmental of my 
hobby, but his films leave 
me feeling lightheaded 
and great. What can I do 
to convince my friends 
theres nothing wrong 
with the occasional David 
Carradine?
Thanks,
Feeling Illicit, Latters 
Movies Banish Unusual 
Feelings Frequently
Dear FILM BUFF,
Im sorry, but I just cant 
encourage David Carradine 
fandom. Sure, you saw Kill 
Bill and thought he was 
great in it. Maybe it gives 
you more of a rush  leaves 
you feeling woozy. The next 
thing you know, its a few 
hours later and you have no 
recollection of what youve 
been doing  just a deep 
sense of shame and a desire 
to cover it up the next day.
Stay away from Carradine. 
There are many other, safer 
options out there that are 
just as fun. If Kill Bill is what 
got you started, explore the 
Tarantino oeuvre. If it was 
his 70s martial arts series, 
try pivoting to some Bruce 
Lee films and The Green 
Hornet series. While they 
may not have the same illicit 
thrill of some of Carradines 
stuff, they will still leave you 
satisfied. Plus, Bruce Lee 
rocks. Just remember: No 
David Carradine, not even 
once.
Stay away from Bangkok 
hotels,
Patrick Hoskins
Dear Patrick,
Wooooooooooooo!!! 
Carnival!!! Wooooooooo!!! 
Boooooth!!! Buuuuuggy!!! 
Wooooooooo!!! Carnival!!!
Thanks,
Want Orgiastic 
Opportunities, Otherwise, 
Optimistically, Offending 
Opposers Offer Other 
Obscene Oases Or 
Occasional Opiates
Dear 
WOOOOOOOOOOOOO,
Woo indeed. Its finally 
Carnival, and Im going to 
give you the trademarked 
Hoskins Personal Carnival 
Enjoyment Guide. First, skip 
every school-sponsored 
event. Booth is only 
enjoyable if youre a thrillseeker tempting fate when 
climbing to the third floor 
of a sororitys disaster of a 
superstructure. Buggy is 
enjoyable until you realize 
its NASCAR for nerds, and 
as far as the concert goes, 
I doubt you can name more 
than one Lupe song. 
So if the school events are 
a bust, what should you 
do? Well, what youve been 
doing all year: Roll out of 
bed, crack open a beer, 
and dont stop until your 
reflection starts to look pretty 
good. Party like you go to 
Pitt. Dance like nobodys 
watching. Play Edward 
Fortyhands and get in a 
shot-for-shot contest. Make 
a lot of bad decisions.
Do something dumb 
enough to earn a 
nickname,
Patrick Hoskins
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About David Carradine and Carnival
Yoram Bauman describes himself as the one and 
only stand-up economist.

---------------------------------------------------

4music
pillbox 04.15.13
Heinz Hall was near full capacity on Saturday night  
and no wonder: The program boasted violinist Joshua 
Bell, who is about as close to a rock star as it gets in 
the classical music world. Bells performance was 
spectacular, of course  but his was only one of several 
performances that made Saturdays program especially 
fantastic.
Before Bells performance, the 201213 Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra (PSO) Composer of the Year Mason 
Bates came to the stage to introduce his piece, Desert 
Transport. It seemed odd that Bates should choose 
a Bell concert to debut his work  where no matter 
how well received the piece was, it would inevitably 
be overshadowed by Bells performance. However, by 
introducing it on Saturday, Bates ensured that his work 
was heard by the largest possible audience.
And to Bates credit, the composition was very good. 
His piece sounded unlike much of the more eccentric 
and purposefully dissonant contemporary music thats 
already out there. Sweeping and glorious, the music 
resembled a movie score in terms of its scope and 
sound. As Bates explained, the piece was inspired by a 
helicopter ?ight over the Arizona desert. The climbing 
strings mirrored the rise in altitude as the helicopter took 
off; one could even hear the rapid pulsing of helicopter 
blades in the percussion. There was a de?nite sense 
of journey to the piece  a triumphant arc that rose, 
peaked, and then returned to ground level.
Even though this piece wasnt necessarily the most 
anticipated on the program, audience members cheered 
wildly at its conclusion, granting Bates a well-deserved 
standing ovation. For those few minutes, it was 
gratifying to see music lovers acknowledge new talent in 
the composing world  even if they had primarily come 
to see someone else.
The cheers subsided and then rose again as Bell took the 
stage. After exchanging a few good-natured handshakes 
with members of the orchestra and giving the audience 
an appreciative smile, Bell lifted his violin for Bernsteins 
Serenade after Platos Symposium.
The sound was incredible. Watching Bell, it was 
immediately clear that he has an unusually stiff vibrato; 
unlike most top-notch violinists who produce a more 
?uid vibrato from the wrist, Bell uses his entire arm in a 
way that looks almost awkward at times.
However, this quirky characteristic did nothing to 
detract from the sound he produced. Bell played deftly 
and effortlessly, even producing a few series of notes 
that seemed impossibly fast. In these moments, Bell 
proved himself an energetic performer; his hair moved 
vigorously with the music, and he frequently bent and 
straightened his knees according to the tension in each 
phrase.
But any violinist of his caliber can play quickly. The 
moments that set Bell apart as a musician happened 
when the tempo slowed and gave him time to bring out 
the artistry in his playing. Bell managed to wring every 
ounce of sweetness from the notes he played, just toeing 
the line between excess and perfection. A dreamlike 
expression crossed his face during these slower 
passages.
Toward the end of the piece, PSO assistant principal 
cellist Adam Liu joined Bell in a lovely duet. Though Bell 
was clearly still the star, Lius cello supplemented him 
nicely, and Bell was not so overpowering as to detract 
from the delicate exchange of back-and-forth musical 
dialogue.
But Bells performance, startlingly, was not the end of the 
concert. After the intermission, the orchestra took the 
stage for a performance of Brahms Symphony No. 3 in F 
major. Bells was a hard act to follow, but the orchestras 
performance proved to be anything but anticlimactic.
The PSOs rendition of the Brahms was truly the best of 
the best. The second movement in particular showed 
off the orchestras exquisite dynamics. The orchestra 
worked in complete harmony; each phrase lifted and 
descended with a soft sigh, as if the orchestra were a 
single breathing body.
The order of the program was an interesting and 
undoubtedly intentional choice. The program could have 
easily ended with a bang after Bells performance, but 
instead the orchestra chose to give itself the limelight for 
the last third of the concert. This ?nal performance was a 
nod toward the orchestra and a reminder that they made 
the entire evening possible  a reminder of the renown 
and professionalism without which bringing in soloists 
like Joshua Bell would not even be possible. By ending 
the concert with the Brahms, the PSO made the evening 
not a celebration of Bell or Bates, but a celebration of the 
orchestra itself and its important contributions to the 
Pittsburgh cultural scene.
Rachel Cohen | Pillbox Editor
Bells violin rings through Heinz Hall
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra showcases renowned soloist

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 04.15.135
Dream of Autumn provokes surreal questions
Production at East Libertys Quantum Theatre features Carnegie Mellon faculty members
In the last seconds before death, what would you see 
?ashing before your eyes  your greatest regrets, your 
happiest memories, or something so extraordinary and 
unthinkable that it can only be experienced in the throes 
of death?
This question pervades the production of Dream 
of Autumn, a surrealist play written by Norwegian 
playwright Jon Fosse and translated and directed by 
Sarah Cameron Sunde, at the Quantum Theatre in East 
Liberty.
It is impossible to pin down the exact story of Dream of 
Autumn; it ?oats somewhere between the long shadows 
and ghostly ?gures of the play. At its core, Dream of 
Autumn is about a man who relives his life in fractured 
visions as his existence comes to an end. In a scattered 
collage of bittersweet memories, broken relationships, 
and emotional turmoil, Dream of Autumn touches upon a 
range of subjects: love, lust, family, death, fear, trust, loss, 
and the passage of time.
The characters are a strange combination of enigma 
and personality. All but one go unnamed. They speak in 
sometimes meandering, sometimes repetitive dialogue. 
However, they are fascinating and unforgettable, 
brought to life by an amazing performances by the cast.
Carnegie Mellon adjunct professor Martin Giles plays 
Man, the protagonist of the play  a con?icted ?gure 
who seems almost indecisive and childlike in his actions. 
Karla Boos plays Woman, the ghostly and free-spirited 
lover and temptress. Laurie Klatscher and Carnegie 
Mellon drama and music professor Gregory Lehane 
portray Mans parents  a desperate, deeply anxious 
mother and a nonchalant, aloof father. Jennifer Tober 
plays Gry, Mans ex-wife, who remains bitter and angry 
over their divorce.
Giles portrayal of Man was particularly fascinating. Not 
only did he cover a wide range of emotions in expressing 
the characters inner turmoil, but he also managed to 
punctuate his performance with moments of unexpected 
comedy, with an odd word or shift in tone here and there 
to lighten the mood.
The staging was simply phenomenal. The set felt like a 
Salvador Dal painting brought to life. Pieces of bonewhite furniture half-buried in sand became tombstones 
where a basement had been converted into a graveyard.
The plays set and costume designer Narelle Sissons, 
who is an associate professor of scenography at 
Carnegie Mellon, spoke about her reasoning for the set 
design: The only thing Fosse gives us in the text are a 
bench, some gravel, and a graveyard. We did not have 
a bench, gravel, or a graveyard. Instead, we wanted to 
build a psychological space, in the basement of this 
mansion, an abandoned basement in decay.
The lighting, directed by Carnegie Mellon assistant 
teaching professor of lighting C. Todd Brown, changed 
dynamically and unexpectedly, creating a multitude 
of different atmospheres. Carnegie Mellon assistant 
professor of sound design Joe Pino created a sense of 
eerie unrest in the space of the basement.
The elements of the production often inundated the 
audience all at once. For instance, in a scene where Man 
must choose between his parents and Gry or Woman, 
there are sudden, sharp changes in lighting and sound 
as the characters engage in a bitter, desperate backand-forth dialogue. There is a real sense of tension and 
discord, as if the world is being torn apart at that very 
moment.
At the end, when the twin hourglasses that run for the 
duration of the play are out of sand, there is still a trail of 
questions left unanswered. However, the beauty of the 
play is that, in leaving behind a mystery, it generates a 
great deal of introspection. You will wonder what you 
will see just before you die, what the most important part 
of your life is, and what you will do until that inevitable 
day when your very own dream of autumn comes to you.
Xiyu Wang | Staffwriter
Quantum Theatres Dream of Autumn runs through 
April 28.
Photo courtesy of Heather Mull
Courtesy of Heather Mull
Gry, Mans ex-wife and the only named character in 
the play, is always portrayed in the rain.
Mans parents, both unnamed, emerge from a closet. Though married, the two characters could not be more 
different in terms of personality.

---------------------------------------------------

6cooking
pillbox 04.15.13
T-minus three days and counting. Its almost here: 
the moment youve all been waiting for. On Thursday, 
Carnival  the biggest party of the year  will start 
with a bang.
These next few days are truly a test of your patience 
as a human being, and the only possible solution lies 
in the magical powers of the single best thing that has 
ever been packaged in a plastic container: Nutella. This 
magical concoction of hazelnuts and chocolate can make 
absolutely any problem fade into nonexistence. So to 
help you get through the next few days, here are a few 
recipes that can make the wait a little more appealing.
Nutella Cheesecake Brownies
Adapted from wishfulchef.com
Dif?culty: Hard, but worth it.
Ingredients:
For brownie layer:
 cup of vegetable oil
 cup of Nutella
2 eggs
 cup of sugar
1 cup of ?our
 cup of unsweetened cocoa powder
For cheesecake layer:
8 ounces of cream cheese, softened
2 tablespoons of sugar
2 eggs
1/3 cup of Nutella
1. Preheat oven to 325F and grease a nine-inch 
square pan. For the brownie layer, mix the ?rst four 
ingredients together until smooth, then add in the 
?our and cocoa powder. Pour mixture into pan and 
spread evenly.
2. In a separate bowl, combine the cheesecake 
ingredients until creamy and smooth, then pour 
over the brownie batter.
3. Bake for 4050 minutes or until the cheesecake has 
set.
4. If desired, refrigerate until cool. Note that 
cheesecake fresh from the oven is also delicious.
No-Bake Nutella Peanut Butter Cookies
From thekitchn.com
Dif?culty: Medium
Ingredients:
3 tablespoons of butter
 cup of sugar
 cup of milk
1 tablespoon of unsweetened cocoa powder
 cup of peanut butter
 cup of Nutella
2 cups of rolled oats
1. Lay tin foil on a ?at surface for the cookies to cool 
on.
2. Combine the butter, sugar, milk, and cocoa powder 
in a medium saucepan and heat until melted while 
mixing.
3. Stir in the peanut butter and Nutella.
4. When previous ingredients are combined, remove 
from heat and stir in oats.
5. Use a spoon to form cookies on the tin foil and allow 
to cool before eating  if you can wait that long.
Flourless Nutella Cake
From kirbiecravings.com
Dif?culty: Easy
Ingredients:
4 large eggs
8  ounces of Nutella
1. Preheat the oven to 350F and grease a six- or 
seven-inch circular pan.
2. Beat the eggs for six minutes, or until they have 
roughly tripled in volume.
3. Microwave the Nutella for 20 seconds to soften 
it. Add about one-third of the egg mixture and 
mix thoroughly. Repeat twice until the entire egg 
mixture is incorporated. Pour into the pan.
4. Bake for 2025 minutes or until a knife inserted 
into the center comes out clean. Make sure to cool 
completely before serving.
An Almost-Empty Jar of Nutella Miracle
Dif?culty: Easiest
Ingredients:
An almost empty jar of Nutella
Ice cream
1. When your jar has almost run out, scoop some ice 
cream into it and stir.
2. Congratulations  youve of?cially performed a 
miracle that you can eat with a spoon.
Laura Scherb | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Nutella proves a hearty pre-Carnival treat
Consult these recipes for some tasty, chocolatey treats to sustain you through this week
Courtesy of Melissa Hillier via Flickr
No-bake Nutella peanut butter cookies are a quick fix 
for a nutty, chocolate craving.

---------------------------------------------------

If you happened to walk past Schenley Plaza last Friday, 
you may have wondered why there was a Ferris wheel 
and other festivities present.
These were all part of an event called Celebrating 
Oakland, also called Oakland Forever. University of 
Pittsburgh Medical Center (UPMC) served as the primary 
sponsor, although other sponsors included Carnegie 
Mellon, the University of Pittsburgh, and the Oakland 
Transportation Management Association.
Although the description of the event boasted 
activities such as a food tour, carnival rides, and live 
entertainment, the majority of them did not seem to 
be present at the actual event. The only carnival ride 
was one Ferris wheel, and there was no food, unless 
you count the decorated dog biscuits being sold by one 
vendor. 
In addition, it was dif?cult to tell whether the marching 
band from Pitt was practicing on the side, or part of 
the event. Regardless of its reason for being there, 
the Pitt marching band appeared to be the only live 
entertainment present.
Although there was not much to do, a decent number 
of people showed up to the event. It was nice seeing 
families out together and enjoying the agreeable 
weather. 
It was also interesting to talk to the vendors and see 
what they were selling. In addition to the table with 
decorated dog biscuits, there was another vendor selling 
custom jewelry and another with an array of colorful 
scarves. These tables all featured locally made items and 
attracted quite a number of people.
Upon speaking to some of the vendors, it became 
clear that the event was actually a trial run for the 
actual Celebrating Oakland festival that will occur next 
year. Next year is Oaklands 175th birthday, and the 
celebration is supposedly being planned on a much 
larger scale. 
Fridays event was the ?rst of its kind, which may 
better explain why it was poorly organized. If this years 
Celebrating Oakland was in fact a trial, there are many 
changes that should be made to make it less confusing 
and more of a celebration, as its name suggests.
One of the more important changes that should be 
made is to the description of the event. This years 
festival could not be any more different from how it 
was described, so the next event should stick to the 
description. Additional activities and live performers 
would de?nitely be bene?cial and could attract 
signi?cantly more people than it did this year. 
As the description of the event suggests, the goal of 
Celebrating Oakland was to bring the residents of 
Oakland together; the turnout for this year was an 
indication that better organization could make next 
years actual event memorable for the entire community.
Nikita Mishra |  Staffwriter
community 
pillbox 04.15.137
Oakland Forever promised more than it delivered
Celebrating Oakland festival is underwhelming trial run for next years actual event
The Ferris wheel was one of the only carnival-like 
attractions featured at last weeks Celebrating Oakland 
festival in Schenley Plaza.
Nikita Mishra | Junior Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

carnival
pillbox 04.15.1398carnival
pillbox 04.15.13
Midway Map: Your Guide to Booth 2013
                  Josh Smith | Editor-in-Chief, Rachel Cohen | Pillbox Editor, and Kelsey Scott | Operations Manager
Booth Themes
Alpha Chi Omega Goldilocks and Brave
Alpha Epsilon Pi The Humpy Dumpty 
Trama Ward
Alpha Kappa Psi Hansel and Gretel
Alpha Phi Beauty and the Beast and Harry 
Potter
Alpha Phi Omega James and the Giant 
Fried Oreo
Asian Student Association Little Mermaid
BioSAC Cinderella
Delta Delta Delta Rapunzel
Delta Gamma Coraline
Delta Tau Delta Sword and the Stone
Delta Upsilon How to Train Your Dragon
Fringe Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the 
Witch, and the Wardrobe
Kappa Alpha Theta Thumbelina
Kappa Kappa Gamma Snow White and 
the Seven Dwarves
Kappa Sigma Valhalla in the Old West
KGB Rumplestilskin
Mayur SASA Alice in Wonderland
Mudge Mudge Fairy Tale
Sigma Phi Epsilon Up
Singapore Students Association Jack 
and the Beanstalk
Spirit Plot Holes
Stever House Peter Pan
Student Dormitory Council Shrek
Taiwanese Students Association 
Nutcracker
Fractured Fairytales 
 Each year, Carnival Committee selects a theme for Booth. In keeping with this years theme of fairytales with a twist, booths range from more classic tales like Cinderella and Rapunzel to more recent creations like Coraline and Brave.
Midway features other attractions as well, including rides and concessions. The main tent is a central location for many Spring Carnival events, such as the Thursday night comedy show.
                  Map courtesy of contrib.andrew.cmu.edu

---------------------------------------------------

10film
pillbox 04.15.13
On the closing day of the Carnegie Mellon 
International Film Festival, the audience was 
treated to Petr Loms documentary Back to the 
Square, which centers around the aftereffects 
of the recent Egyptian Revolution. Shown at 
McConomy Auditorium last Saturday, the ?lm 
attracted people of various ages and backgrounds, 
making the screening a tremendous success. It was 
an incredible wrap-up to the ?lm festival, and in 
keeping with this years theme Faces of Media, 
the ?lm epitomized the power of media. It focused 
on the tremendous impact of social media like 
Facebook or blogging from people in Egypt that 
helped overthrow a nations dictator.
Lom has had quite an amazing journey into ?lm 
himself. A Harvard Ph.D. professor in political 
philosophy, Lom decided to leave his academic 
career to focus on documentary ?lmmaking about 
social injustices. 
For most people in the audience, who were only 
spectators of the 2011 Egyptian Revolution, a few 
key words come to mind: Mubarak, overthrown, 
injustice, Facebook, military. However, the 
revolution spans far beyond that in terms of actions 
and consequences. When Egypts dictator Hosni 
Mubarak was overthrown, the people did not receive 
the freedom they expected. Loms documentary 
Back to the Square conveys the worsening of 
conditions in Egypt ever since the military took over 
Mubaraks rule. By focusing on the portraits of ?ve 
people affected by the aftermath of the revolution, 
the documentary powerfully reveals the chaotic 
violence and growth in dictatorial regime that has 
made an entire country suffer since Jan. 25, 2011.
The ?rst story is about an adolescent horse 
herdsman who was attacked during the revolution 
after driving to the pyramids in an attempt to sell 
souvenirs. Traumatized by the unprecedented 
violence, his family struggled after that fateful day, 
a day that originally promised hope but ended in 
barbaric uproar. The second portrait is about a taxi 
driver who was gratuitously sentenced to six years 
in prison and subjected to horrendous torture by the 
police and military.
The third portrait focuses on a woman and her 
husband who were subjected to unjusti?ed 
intimidation by the police, while the fourth portrait 
features on a girl named Saiwa who met her ?rst 
love during the political demonstrations and was 
eventually accused of prostitution by the military.
The ?nal portrait concentrates on a young man who 
wrote a post on his personal blog criticizing the 
military and was forced into prison. In the midst of 
the incredulity, one of the civilians says, You can go 
to jail for one Facebook comment  demonstrating 
the intense tightening of the regime after a society 
tumbled into chaos.
All ?ve of these stories revolve around the senseless 
destruction of civilian lives. The ?lm shows that, 
because of the regimes determination to scare 
citizens into submission after the revolution, Egypt 
is now in a worse state than it was during Mubaraks 
reign. The ?lm ends on Tahrir Square with protests 
for human rights, leaving with the message that 
human life is the foundation of a functional and 
moral society, not power or force.
By observing the lives of the ?ve people marred by a 
seemingly world-changing revolution, the audience 
was able to experience the eye-opening truth 
behind a false promise. The documentary effectively 
conveys the tragedy of a military abusing its power 
and shattering the hope of its people immediately 
after their dictator was overthrown. The feeling of 
injustice is all too real and very much alive. The ?lm 
was incredibly well done and successfully showed 
the other side of the revolution that no one outside of 
Egypt can easily access.
Lom will also hold a ?lm workshop Monday at 5 p.m. 
in Giant Eagle Auditorium (BH A51).
Andie Park | Junior Staffwriter 
Film festival gets political
Back to the Square explores unforeseen effects of the Arab Spring
A diverse audience filled McConomy Auditorium 
for the final screening of the Carnegie Mellon 
International Film Festival.
Kate Groschner | Photo Editor
Catherine Spence | Staffwriter
Did you know?
100years ago
March 27, 1913
The men of Beta Theta Pi Epsilon 
fraternity hosted a three-day party 
at its chapter house, including the 
Musical Clubs Concert and Dance 
 an informal musical at the house  
and the annual fraternity dance. The 
dance took place at the Rittenhouse 
and includes dinner and dancing. 
50years ago
Apr. 10, 1963
Beth Parkinson, Carnegie Techs 
candidate for Glamours Best Dressed 
Girl Contest, was selected as one of 
30 semifinalists from across the nation. 
If she won the contest she would have 
spent spend the first two weeks of 
June on location at Glamours offices 
in New York City, attending luncheons 
and photo shoots among other events.
25years ago
Apr. 19, 1988
A sculpture in memory of Judith A. 
Resnik was dedicated outside Porter 
Hall. Resnik passed away on Jan. 28, 
1986 in the Challenger space shuttle 
crash. The sculpture, made of bent 
case metal and set on a stone base, 
represents a liberal spirit in engineering 
colleges.
10years ago
Apr. 14, 2003
As Carnival weekend concluded, 
The Tartan asked students, What 
was your most memorable Carnival 
moment? One first-year student was 
overjoyed when Dave Attell signed 
that girls chest. The best memory, 
though, came from a senior mechanical 
engineer who said, I dont remember 
anything.
5years ago
Apr. 14, 2008
The School of Computer Science 
established the Robot Hall of Fame 
to recognize real and fictional robots. 
Robots can be honored as Robots of 
Science or Robots of Science Fiction. 
Robots of Science are expected to 
serve functional purposes, whereas 
one of the first fictional robots inducted 
into the Hall of Fame was R2-D2.
1year ago
Apr. 16, 2012
Facebook purchased Instagram for 
$1 billion dollars last Monday. The 
purchase used up about one quarter of 
Facebooks on-hand revenue. Before 
the purchase, Instagram had been live 
for 17 months and had 13 employees. 

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 04.15.1311
Sittin on the Fence by Charlie Shulman and Kairavi Chahal
cshulman@andrew.cmu.edu
Crinkled Comics by Juan Fernandez
jjfernan@andrew.cmu.educrinkledcomics.com

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 04.15.13
Do I Hate You? by Doghouse Diaries
doghousediaries@gmail.comdoghousediaries.com
Wrong Hands by John Atkinson
wronghands1@gmail.comwronghands1.wordpress.com
Piled Higher and Deeper by Jorge Cham
jorge@phdcomics.comphdcomics.com

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 04.15.1313
Solutions from Apr. 8
CrosswordVery Hard DifficultyEasy Difficulty
Kakuro Puzzle: Hard Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Medium Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of
www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/sudokugen/Kakuro courtesy of www.KrazyDad.com
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue at its top. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 04.15.13
1. Variety of kale
2. Person to whom property is transferred
3. A book in which records are kept
4. Contented sighs
5. Big bang cause
6. Broadcaster
7. Refine
8. Rubbish
9. Brit. lexicon
10. Having lobes
11. Singer Kitt
12. Academic themes
13. Seam where two bones are fused
18. Pinto or lima
22. Bon ___
24. Formerly, once
25. Teen hangout
27. Actress Thurman
30. Hollywood Squares win
31. Hosp. workers
32. Battery size
34. Got it
35. The wolf ___ the door
36. Meditative sect
37. Lasting
40. Having a valid will
41. Collection of weaponry
42. Broadway opening
43. Pantry
44. Metamorphic rock
45. Hans Christian Andersens birthplace
46. Treasure Island monogram
47. Excellent, slangily
49. Grassy plain
50. Ancient Greek colony
51. Reflect
55. ...___ saw Elba
57. Lush
58. Sheet music abbr.
1. Unit of weight in gemstones
6. About
10. Permits
14. New York city
15. Hungarys Nagy
16. Island of Hawaii
17. Bread leavened with yeast
19. Author Harte
20. Hula hoops?
21. Long fish
22. Island in the East China Sea
23. Ques. response
24. Maternal woman
26. Go back
28. Comfortable
29. Considers
30. Word that can precede hygiene, 
tradition and agreement.
33. Make conformable to reason
38. Slammin Sammy
39. Actress Berger
42. Earth in the Balance author
47. Procure
48. Light of a candle
52. Battleship letters
53. Woody inhabitants of forests!
54. Damn Yankees role
55. Romain de Tirtoff, familiarly
56. Thors father
57. Wholesome
59. Scottish loch, home to a 
monster!
60. Getting ___ years
61. ___-car
62. Scottish Gaelic
63. Exactly
64. Star in Orion
ACROSSDOWN
Carnival-oscopes
aries
march 21april 19
Harlem Shake by Baauer
taurus
april 20may 20
The Sound of Silence by Simon & Garfunkel
gemini
may 21june 21
The Show Goes On by Lupe Fiasco
cancer
june 22july 22
Being for the Benefit of Mr. Kite! by The Beatles
leo
july 23aug. 22 
Fight For Your Right by the Beastie Boys
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Satisfaction by The Rolling Stones
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Heartache Tonight by the Eagles
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Margaritaville by Jimmy Buffett
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Cant Hold Us by Macklemore and Ryan Lewis
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
1999 by Prince
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Sunday Morning Comin Down by Johnny Cash
pisces
feb. 19march 20
Dancing Queen by ABBA
Kairavi Chahal | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

 calendar 
pillbox 04.15.1315
THURSDAY4.18.13
Sweepstakes Buggy Design Competition. 
Wiegand Gymnasium. 10 a.m.
The buggy teams will show off their designs. The Buggy 
Alumni Association will also have a welcome table and 
display.
Sci-? Destroys the Future, Science Builds It. 
Rashid Auditorium (4401 Gates & Hillman Center). Noon.
New York Times bestselling author and roboticist Daniel 
H. Wilson (SCS 03, 04, 05) will present this years 
Teruko Yata Memorial Lecture on the exchange of 
ideas between Hollywood and academia and how that 
helps prepare mankind for the changes brought on by 
technology.
School of Art Downhill Derby.  
Between Doherty Hall & the University Center. 3 p.m.
College of Fine Arts students will don extravagant 
costumes and parade down the hill between Doherty Hall 
and the University Center in mock-buggy style.
Midway Opening Ceremony. Midway. 3 p.m.
Midway, which features booths, rides, and food, of?cially 
opens on Thursday.
Kiltie Band Concert. Midway Tent. 3:30 p.m.
Carnegie Mellons kilt-wearing concert band will perform.
Project Olympus Show and Tell 17.  
McConomy Auditorium. 4:30 p.m.
Students and faculty will discuss the latest in their 
research, innovation, and entrepreneurship. The 
presentation will be followed by a networking reception.
AB Comedy Show: Judah Friedlander. Midway Tent. 
8 p.m.
Actor and comedian Judah Friedlander (known for his 
role as Frank on NBCs 30 Rock) will perform at this years 
comedy show.
FRIDAY4.19.13
Sweepstakes Preliminary Races. Schenley Park. 9 
a.m. 
All qualifying mens and womens buggy teams will 
compete.
Alumni Association All Campus BBQ.  
Merson Courtyard, University Center. 11:30 a.m.
Join alumni and current students for a courtyard 
barbecue.
eLuma Music Festival. The Cut. 11:30 a.m.
Sponsored by ENACTUS, the eLuma Music Festival 
will feature student performers and is meant to raise 
awareness about Project Yele, a charity project that aims 
to bring community development to Sierra Leone.
19th Annual MOBOT Races. 
Race Courses in Front of Wean Hall. Noon.
Student-built mobile robots, or MOBOTs, will race through 
gates to the ?nish line.
Robotics Institute Demonstrations.  
Planetary Robotics Lab Highbay, Gates & Hillman Centers 
(?rst ?oor). Noon.
These demonstrations for the Robotics Institute celebrate 
National Robotics Week.
History of Buggy. Giant Eagle Auditorium, Baker Hall. 
1:30 p.m.
Buggy expert Tom Wood (CIT 74) will give a talk with 
photos, statistics, and stories from the long-standing 
Carnegie Mellon tradition.
The Tartan Alumni and Student Mixer.  
Tartan Of?ce, UC 314. 2:30 p.m.
Come mingle with alumni in The Tartans of?ce.
MOBOT Award Ceremony and Wrap Up.  
Rashid Auditorium, Gates & Hillman Centers. 3 p.m.
The winners of the MOBOT competition will be awarded.
ScotchnSoda 75th Anniversary Reception. 
Danforth Lounge. 6 p.m.
Come and celebrate 75 years of ScotchnSoda.
Carnival Concert: Lupe Fiasco. CFA Lawn. 8 p.m.
American rapper Lupe Fiasco will perform on the CFA 
Lawn. In the case of rain, the concert will be held in 
Wiegand Gymnasium.
Spring Carnival Fireworks. The Mall. 10:30 p.m.
Enjoy a ?reworks show to celebrate Carnival.
SATURDAY4.20.13
Sweepstakes Final Races. Schenley Park. 9:15 a.m.
The ?nal buggy races of Carnival will take place.
Why Capitalism? Mellon Auditorium (Posner Center). 
10 a.m.
Carnegie Mellon professor of political economy Allan 
Meltzer will hold a discussion and book signing of his 
book Why Capitalism?
Zumba Networking Mixer.  
Activities Room, University Center. 11 a.m.
Join the Hispanic and Latino Alumni Association for a 
30-minute Zumba session and refreshments.
Alumni soccer game. Soccer ?eld. 11 a.m.
Come cheer on alumni as they face off on the pitch.
Holi. Flagstaff Hill. Noon.
Celebrate the Hindu holiday of the triumph of true resolve 
and love by throwing colored powder on Flagstaff Hill. 
The celebration is hosted by OM, an organization for 
Indian spirituality and culture.
Academic Insights: Collective Intelligence in Human 
Groups. Posner Center, Room 153. 1:30 p.m.
Anita Williams Woolley, Carnegie Mellon assistant profesor 
of organizational behavior and theory, will present the talk.
Academic Insights: Energy  Whats Next? 
Posner Center, Room 152. 1:30 p.m.
Jay Apt, Carnegie Mellon professor of technology and 
executive director of Carnegie Mellons Electricity Industry 
Center, will discuss energy trends and pressures.
Academic Insights: Staying Happy with What We 
Have. Posner Center, Room 153. 2:30 p.m.
Jeffrey Galak, Carnegie Mellon assistant professor of 
marketing, will talk about happiness.
Urban Design Build Studio (UDBS) Project Tour and 
Presentation. Solar House, Donner Dell. 3 p.m.
Come tour the UDBS Southern Exposure project. 
Southern Exposure is a non-pro?t organization that 
supports the visual arts.
Barbara Anderson Celebration. 
Foyer, Purnell Center for the Arts. 5 p.m.
The School of Drama will celebrate the proli?c career of 
professor of costume design and construction Barbara 
Anderson.
Spring Carnival & Sweepstakes Awards Ceremony. 
Main Tent, Midway. 6:30 p.m.
The winners of Sweepstakes will receive their awards.
Shot for Shot Student Film Festival. 
Tennis Court Amphitheatre. 7:30 p.m.
Join the Carnegie Mellon Filmmaking Club as they 
showcase the ?lm and video work of students in the 
Pittsburgh area.
Detour presents: Paolo Rocca. 6119 Penn Ave. 
10 p.m.
Deep house DJ Paolo Rocca will perform at 6119. 
Carnegie Mellon alumni Alex Price (TSB 12) and Naeem 
Martinez-White (CFA 12) will open the show.
SUNDAY4.21.13
Carnegie Mellon Basketball Club Hall of Fame 
Dinner. Connan Room, University Center. 4 p.m.
Registration is required for this event.
ONGOING
ScotchnSoda presents: Assassins. 
Rangos Hall (University Center).
In its 75th anniversary production, ScotchnSoda Theatre 
will perform Assassins, a musical by Stephen Sondheim 
and John Weidman, on Thursday at 8 p.m., Friday at 2 
p.m. and 11 p.m., and Saturday at 2 p.m. and 7 p.m. 
Tickets are available at snstheatre.org.
Game Creation Society Arcade. 
Gates & Hillman Center, 4th Floor Atrium.
Game Creation Society will host its annual GCS Arcade. 
This years arcade will showcase the highlights from over 
7 years of student game development. The arcade will be 
open Friday and Saturday from noon until 5 p.m.
Compiled by Allison Cosby | Contributing Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.

---------------------------------------------------

16feature
pillbox 04.15.13
Kelsey Scott | Operations Manager
Carnegie Mellon Universitys black awareness organization, SPIRIT, 
held its 26th annual fashion show on Saturday night in Rangos Hall. The 
show, titled Untold, encouraged pride in diversity and acknowledge 
the many untold stories of discrimination and hardship. Students 
shared many of their own stories through song and the spoken word. 
SPIRIT.
