Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
Buggy races compete with heavy rain  A10
SPORTS
Carnival booths need more variety between years  A8
FORUM
Single mobot ?nishes course  A5
SCITECH
thetartan.org
@thetartan
April 23, 2012
Volume 106, Issue 26
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Staffwriter
The Waf?e Shop, located 
at 124 South Highland Ave., 
has become a unique part of 
the Pittsburgh arts community over the past four years. 
The Waf?e Shop and the programs it facilitates will continue to operate through the 
summer. However, the popular combination art project 
and restaurant will close its 
doors on Aug. 1.
Although it serves primarily breakfast fare, the Waf?e 
Shop is only open between  
10 a.m. and 2 p.m. on Sundays 
and from 11 p.m. to 3 a.m. on 
Fridays and Saturdays. Over 
waf?es, patrons are invited 
to discuss art, politics, or anything they desire. The conversations are ?lmed and broadcast live, and highlight reels 
are released on the Waf?e 
Shops website. The building 
also houses Con?ict Kitchen, 
an af?liated project that sells 
takeout food from countries 
the U.S. is in con?ict with.
After four years of operation, I feel that [the Waf?e Shop] has kind of run its 
course, said Carnegie Mellon 
art professor Jon Rubin, one 
of the founders of the project. We have to raise a lot of 
money to support the project. 
Our food sales cover about 40 
percent, and the rest comes 
from foundation support. 
We get a lot of support from 
[East Liberty Development, 
Inc.], and our landlords been 
very generous with us. But its 
quite a bit of money to have to 
raise on a yearly basis, and Im 
not sure we can keep doing it. 
We have fewer people coming 
to the project, so our numbers 
have been going down for the 
past year slowly.
Rubin said that the Waf?e 
Shop has had a successful 
four years. I think its been 
an amazing run, especially 
Waf?e Shop to close in August
BENJAMIN MADUEME
Staffwriter
Republican presidential 
candidate Ron Paul stopped 
by his home town of Pittsburgh last Friday to speak as 
part of his presidential campaign trail. About 2,300 people attended his speech at the 
Soldiers & Sailors Memorial 
Hall and Museum. His message, which emphasized the 
importance of an isolationist 
foreign policy and the dangers of an overreaching government, drew enthusiastic 
applause from his audience.
Dr. Pauls message of 
liberty has been resonating 
strongly among young people 
all over the country, said 
Christina Garmon, a masters student studying French 
horn performance and the 
leader of the Carnegie Mellon 
Youth for Ron Paul chapter. 
With Pittsburgh having such 
a large student population, it 
is a great location for him to 
speak.
The crowd was mostly 
composed of the students 
and young adults who have 
come to form a large demographic of Pauls supporters. 
They broke into applause and 
chants of President Paul as 
he made his entrance.
If the election was limited 
to those between the ages of 
18 and 30, I might well win 
this election hands down, 
Paul said.
Paul started his speech 
with a commentary on the 
Federal Reserve, the central 
banking system of the U.S. 
The Federal Reserves leverage over the economic policies of the public and private 
sectors has come into question by Paul, especially in light 
of the recent recession. Pauls 
critical comments incited the 
crowd into a deafening roar of 
End the Fed! to which, after 
it had died down, he replied, 
That sounds like a very good 
idea.
For the ?rst time in history, the monetary policy of 
the Federal Reserve is one 
of the big issues of the campaign, Paul said. I propose 
next year, after the election, 
we pass a bill that repeals the 
Federal Reserve Act. This exclamation also drew a loud 
applause.
Paul then shifted his focus 
to the global war on terrorism. He said that it has been 
one of the most overbearing 
wars the U.S. has ever fought. 
Paul compared the War on 
Terror to World War II, claiming that the length of time 
U.S. soldiers were exposed to 
immediate danger then was 
very short compared to the 
war today. He also expressed 
a concern for the thousands 
of soldiers coming back from 
overseas with injuries and 
post-traumatic stress disorder 
 a concern that may have 
stemmed from his medical 
background as a doctor.
If we care about our active 
duty people, Paul said, if we 
care about our national defense, [and] if we care about 
our veterans, we [should] 
change our foreign policy, defend this country, and not be 
the policeman of the world.
Paul also detailed his 
stances on a variety of other 
national issues. He said that 
the defeated Stop Online Piracy Act and the proposed Cyber Intelligence Sharing and 
Protection Act are too controlling, while the 2001 Patriot Act penalized American 
citizens. He also pointed to 
the prejudices that drug laws 
have toward minorities, and 
even suggested that we get 
rid of all the drug laws. He 
also highlighted the bene?ts 
of using gold as acceptable legal tender.
Paul ended his speech on 
an idealistic note. The purpose for liberty ... is to pursue virtue and excellence, 
he said. The philosophy of 
Students ?ock to Ron Paul
See PAUL, A3
See WAFFLE, A3
Benjamin Madueme/Junior Photographer
Republican presidential candidate Ron Paul spoke at Soldiers & Sailors 
Memorial Hall and Museum on Friday. Paul, a Pittsburgh native, is 
known for his libertarian economic policies.
Patrick Gage Kelley/Senior Photographer
The Waf?e Shop, a local restaurant and art project run by Carnegie Mellon art professor Jon Rubin, will close 
its doors on Aug. 1. At the Waf?e Shop, guests can eat waf?es and participate in an in-shop television show.
Spring Carnival Review: Section B
Photos by Alessandra Zimmerman, Jonathan Carreon, Jennifer Coloma, Patrick Gage Kelley, Kate Groschner, and Guillermo Gomez

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  April 23, 2012
Martin S. Gaynor: Health 
IT Seminar
Monday at 1:30 p.m. 
Gates Hillman Complex 
6115
Carnegie Mellon economics and health policy professor Martin S. Gaynor will 
deliver a lecture titled Introduction to the Health Care 
Cost Institute: What to Do 
with Five Billion Health-Care 
Records. 
The lecture will discuss 
the Health Care Cost Institute 
(HCCI), which compiles comprehensive health care claims 
data for the privately insured. 
HCCI will analyze the data 
and make it available for selected scienti?c studies.
Gaynor is the chair of the 
governing board of HCCI. His 
research focuses on the economics of health care markets and organizations, and 
has been published in many 
scienti?c journals. 
Gaynor has worked with 
many divisions of the U.S. 
government and other national governments. In 1996, 
he received the Kenneth J. 
Arrow Award for health economics.
Henry Hornbostel 
Lecture: Tatiana Bilbao
Monday at 6 p.m. 
Carnegie Library Lecture 
Hall
Tatiana Bilbao runs a multidisciplinary design ?rm 
that focuses on architectural 
design. Her studio analyzes 
urban and social crises, and 
uses them as design tools to 
open up niches for cultural 
and economic development.
Although the ?rm is based 
in and largely designs for 
Mexico, it has also created 
buildings and exhibitions in 
China, Spain, France, and the 
U.S. Bilbao was the recipient 
of the Emerging Voices 2009 
prize from the Architectural 
League of New York.
  
Daniel Eisenstein
Tuesday at 4:30 p.m. 
Mellon Institute Auditorium
Harvard professor of astronomy David Eisenstein 
will deliver the physics departments annual Buhl lecture. 
This years lecture is titled 
Dark Energy and Cosmic 
Sound. Eisenstein will speak 
about the acceleration of the 
universes expansion.
According to Eisenstein, 
the sound waves that propagated in plasma during the 
?rst million years of the universe provide an observational test for the phenomenon of 
expansion acceleration. 
Over the last decade, his 
research has speci?cally focused on the development of 
the baryon acoustic oscillation method to measure cosmic distance. 
Eisenstein is currently the 
director of the Sloan Digital 
Sky Survey III.
Dennis C. Blair
Wednesday at 12:15 p.m. 
Gates Hillman Complex 
4307
Dennis Blair, a retired 
Navy admiral, will deliver a 
lecture titled Getting Cyber 
Security Policy Right. Blair 
served as the Director of National Intelligence from January 2009 to May 2010.  
As part of his job, he oversaw 16 national intelligence 
agencies. He was in charge of 
a large budget and provided 
important intelligence support to the president, Congress, and ?eld agencies. 
Blair has also served as 
the chief executive of?cer 
of the Institute for Defense 
Analyses. 
He also served in the Navy 
for 34 years prior to his retirement in 2002.
Compiled by
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Corrections & Clari?cations
The article Students play poker at SIG recruitment 
event (News, April 16) incorrectly referred to Susquehanna International Group employee Amy Liao as Amy 
Lin.
The photograph in Titus credits his teammates 
(Sports, April 16) was incorrectly credited to Jonathan 
Carreon. The correct photographer is Jennifer Coloma.
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or 
editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as the 
date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print issue and publish it online.
Lecture Preview
According to a new report 
from a National Research 
Council committee led by 
Carnegie Mellon public policy and statistics professor 
Daniel Nagin, current studies on the effectiveness of 
the death penalty as a crime 
deterrent are not suf?cient 
enough to draw concrete conclusions.
The report reviewed research  which had been conducted since a government 
moratorium on the death 
penalty was lifted in 1976.
Fundamental ?aws in 
the research we reviewed 
make it of no use in answering the question of whether 
the death penalty affects 
homicide rates, Nagin said 
in a university press release. 
We recognize that this conclusion may be controversial 
to some, but no one is wellserved by unsupportable 
claims about the effect of 
the death penalty, regardless of whether the claim is 
that the death penalty deters 
homicides, has no effect on 
homicide rates or actually increases homicides.
The committee of?cially 
concluded that current research should not be used to 
make public policy decisions 
regarding the death penalty, 
because it does not suf?-
ciently control for the effects 
of noncapital and other punishment as deterrents and is 
based on unfounded assumptions.
Compiled by
MADELYN GLYMOUR
A group of researchers led 
by civil and environmental 
engineering Ph.D. student 
Rachel Hoesly and civil and 
environmental engineering 
and engineering and public 
policy professor H. Scott Matthews recently released ?ndings that show the per capita 
emission rate in Pittsburgh 
was the same in 2000 as it 
was in 1940, even though the 
overall carbon dioxide emissions in Allegheny County 
dropped by 1 percent per 
year between 1970 and 2000.
The study, which was  
co-led by Michael Blackhurst, 
a professor at the University 
of Texas at Austin, shows that 
Pittsburghs per capita emissions rates have not changed, 
despite the disappearance of 
the carbon dioxide-producing steel industry from the 
area.
Pittsburgh lost most of 
the energy-intensive metals 
industry and the jobs that 
went with that era by the 
1980s, which led to a very 
large reduction in energy and 
carbon emissions, Matthews 
said in a university press release.
He then added, It only 
reduced the total footprint by 
25 percent. Cities will need to 
develop more rigorous engineering and economic analysis to meet emission goals.
The fact that the energy 
footprint per person hasnt 
changed in 30 years is sobering news for metro areas that 
want to achieve similar reductions, Blackhurst said in 
the same press release.
CAMPUS NEWS IN BRIEF
Study ?nds Pittsburgh CO2 emissions same as in 1940
FEATURE PHOTO
Students snack, socialize at barbecue
WEATHER
TUESDAY
High / Low
48 / 38
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
57 / 46
THURSDAY
High / Low
52 / 40
FRIDAY
High / Low
51 / 34
SATURDAY
High / Low
61 / 46
Bicycle Theft
April 13, 2012
University Police responded to Hamerschlag House for 
a report of a stolen teal 2012 
Wahoo mountain bike. The 
bike is valued between $400 
and $600. The owner stated 
that he had parked and locked 
the bike in a rack under Hamerschlag House one week ago, 
and that when he returned, 
the bike and lock were gone. 
This case is currently under 
investigation.
Alcohol Amnesty
April 14, 2012
Of?cers were dispatched to 
Mudge House for a report of 
an intoxicated male. The of?cers were told that the male 
attended a party and drank 
nine shots of vodka in a period 
of less than two hours. The 
male had fallen and struck his 
head and was vomiting upon 
the of?cers arrival. Pittsburgh 
medics were summoned, and 
they transported the male to 
UPMC Presbyterian Hospital. 
No citations were issued because of the Alcohol Amnesty 
program.
Underage Drinking
April 15, 2012
University Police were dispatched to the Delta Tau Delta 
fraternity house on reports 
of an 18-year-old intoxicated 
male who was breathing but 
unresponsive. Pittsburgh EMS 
was summoned. They treated 
the male and transported him 
to UPMC Presbyterian Hospital. The male will receive a 
citation for underage drinking 
in the mail.
Alcohol Amnesty
April 15, 2012
Of?cers responded to 
Morewood Gardens for a report of an intoxicated female 
who had passed out in the restroom. The of?cers were told 
that the female had attended 
a party with two friends. The 
friends became concerned 
due to her level of intoxication 
and walked her home. She 
then became ill. Pittsburgh 
medics were summoned, and 
they transported the female to 
UPMC Presbyterian Hospital. 
No citations were issued because of the Alcohol Amnesty 
program.
Drug Possession
April 16, 2012
Of?cers stopped a vehicle 
for driving without headlights 
after dark. The driver of the 
vehicle gave false identi?cation to the of?cers. Further 
investigation revealed that his 
drivers license was under suspension. The of?cers also discovered that he was in possession of illegal drugs. The male 
was arrested and taken to the 
Allegheny County Jail.
Disorderly Conduct
April 19, 2012
University Police were told 
by two separate complainants 
of a disorderly male screaming 
at passers-by as they walked 
on Forbes Avenue near Beeler 
Street. Responding of?cers 
located the male, who was a 
Carnegie Mellon student, and 
issued him a citation for disorderly conduct. He was warned 
that any further complaints 
would result in arrest.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
The Dietrich College of Humanities & Social Sciences hosted a reunion barbeque event on Saturday where current students, faculty, and alumni 
gathered to socialize and reconnect outside of Baker Hall. 
Statistically Speaking
Entertainer Dick Clark, best known for hosting 
American Bandstand and Dick Clarks New Years Rocking Eve, died of a heart attack last Wednesday at the age 
of 82. Clark was known as a supporter of integration 
and civil rights, as well as a veteran television personality. Here are some facts about Clarks legacy:
40 million
39
1972
The ?rst year that Clark hosted ABCs New Years coverage
1957
The year that Clark racially integrated the dancers on 
American Bandstand
Compiled by 
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Sources: seattlepi.com, cnn.com, 
and kansascity.com
Source: www.weather.com
 Number of viewers of American Bandstand in 1958
Jennifer Coloma/Operations Manager
Number of years Clark hosted or co-hosted ABCs 
New Years coverage
Researchers say studies on death penalty insuf?cient

---------------------------------------------------

April 23, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
freedom is the only way to 
achieve not only peace, but 
prosperity as well.
Chris Hsu, a sophomore 
computer science major, enjoyed the message Paul had to 
offer, even if it wasnt entirely 
new to him. Hsu said that he 
has been a Paul supporter 
since last summer. 
In fact, Hsu is such a huge 
fan that he paid $250 to have 
lunch with Paul and his wife, 
Carol Paul, along with about 
80 other supporters, before 
the speech.
It was really surreal, Hsu 
said of the luncheon. It was 
really weird seeing this visionary person right in front of 
you.... When he shook [my] 
hand, it was really ?rm. He 
was really friendly.
Hsu said that one factor 
that drew him to Paul was his 
consistent message about liberty.
It was sort of a realization of what kind of values 
are actually important for 
government to hold, Hsu 
said. When I started reading 
up on Ron Paul, at ?rst I was 
kind of a skeptic.... What I realized was how solid he was 
in his statements. He has been 
saying the same things over 
and over again. He has not 
changed in his positions.
Not everyone who went 
to the rally had much prior 
knowledge about the candidate.
I came here without really 
knowing his views on a lot of 
things, but I was impressed by 
what he had to say, said Jon 
Hewson, a sophomore business and ?nance major at the 
University of Pittsburgh. I 
like a lot of the stuff he had to 
say about the Fed.... I like the 
idea of ending the Fed, and I 
think that will support America as a whole. That is personally what hit me the most.
Amanda Sassa, a sophomore Spanish major at Pitt, 
agreed. I liked what he had 
to say on liberty, and how 
there should be less government intervention, she said. 
I also like what he had to say 
about not censoring the internet.
I think if a lot of people 
listen to what he has to say, 
a lot of people would change 
their minds, Hewson added. 
Hes a cool cat.
PAUL, from A1Ron Paul comes back home
MADELYN GLYMOUR
News Editor
Carnegie Mellons Collaborative Innovation Center 
(CIC) was of?cially renamed 
the Robert Mehrabian Collaborative Innovation Center 
on Wednesday, in honor of 
former University President 
Robert Mehrabian.
Mehrabian, who served 
as university president from 
199197, oversaw the creation of the CIC.
Friends, colleagues, and 
students of Mehrabian spoke 
at the dedication ceremony, 
which was held in the CIC and 
attended by approximately 
100 members of the campus 
and Pittsburgh communities. 
The speakers included current University President Jared Cohon; Board of Trustees 
member Tom McConomy; former Vice Provost for Education Indira Nair; alumna Rebecca Allbrecht Allison, who 
attended Carnegie Mellon 
during Mehrabians tenure; 
and President of the Regional 
Industrial Development Corporation of Southwestern 
Pennsylvania (RIDC) Donald 
Smith. Mehrabian himself 
also spoke.
When I came here, I felt 
that Carnegie Mellon was on 
a great trajectory, and I saw 
my job as trying to keep it on 
the trajectory that Robert had 
laid out, Cohon said.
Cohon pointed to Mehrabians emphasis on undergraduate education as one of the 
best aspects of his presidency: 
Ive had the experience  
and Im sure Robert did too, 
when he was president  of 
going to see alumni from the 
70s and the 80s, and they 
would not hesitate to say to 
me, in very public settings, I 
hated Carnegie Mellon. I got 
a great education, but I hated 
Carnegie Mellon. You dont 
hear that, I havent heard it 
yet, from someone who graduated in the 90s.
I was a faculty member 
when President Mehrabian 
came, Nair said. His whole 
impact on education was 
amazing. He came here as 
a president saying that he 
wanted to bring undergraduate education back up, because wed had great undergraduate education under 
President Doherty, and then 
the next generation was all 
intent on the research. And 
so he wanted to bring attention back to undergraduate 
education, and then he appointed all these committees 
and made us all work. Nair 
said that Carnegie Mellon 
was one of the most improved 
universities in the country in 
terms of graduating student 
satisfaction in the 90s.
Many of the speakers emphasized Mehrabians role 
in facilitating tech start-ups 
and bringing industry to the 
region.
Nair said that the CIC, 
which provides laboratory 
and of?ce spaces to companies that want to collaborate 
with Carnegie Mellon on innovative projects, was the 
perfect building to name after 
Mehrabian. This was what 
he was about, Nair said. He 
was as much about education as about this relationship 
with Pittsburgh, and bringing industry to Pittsburgh.... 
That industry coming back to 
Pittsburgh in a different way 
 not the steel, which is high 
machine industry, but the 
high people industry  was 
Robert. So this is the right 
place to dedicate to him. 
Apple, Disney, and Intel all 
occupy space in the CIC.
Sophomore computer science and statistics double 
major Kevin Gilbert attended 
the dedication as part of his 
role on the Presidents Student Advisory Council. I really wanted to come out to 
this event because it was under Dr. Mehrabians administration that the seeds for the 
School of Computer Science 
were born, Gilbert said. The 
School of Computer Science 
is unique across the entire 
country. Its the only one of its 
kind where computer science 
is treated as a school and not 
just as a ?eld. So I was really 
excited and honored to come 
to this, to meet the president 
who was able to accomplish 
all that.
In his address, Mehrabian 
thanked many of the people 
in attendance who helped 
him or worked with him during his time as president. He 
emphasized the contributions 
that other members of the 
university and local communities had in bringing industry 
to the region. Pittsburgh is a 
vital, creative environment, 
and Carnegie Mellon and 
the University of Pittsburgh 
played a great role, but its 
the leadership of Pittsburgh 
thats played a great role, 
Mehrabian said. Its a great 
place for everybody here.... 
When it comes to Pittsburgh, 
we always put our differences 
aside.
CIC named after president
JOSEPH WHITE
Junior Staffwriter
Warren Washington, an 
atmospheric scientist, visited 
campus on Tuesday to lecture on the use and history 
of climate models to study 
and predict climate change. 
Washington, who is a winner of the National Medal of 
Science and was the second 
African-American to receive 
a doctorate in atmospheric 
sciences, covered the history 
of the ?rst climate models he 
worked with back in the 60s. 
He also discussed how the accuracy of computer-simulated 
models has changed, and how 
with future innovation we 
can improve the simulation of 
the atmosphere.
After showing a glimpse 
into the future of climate 
modeling, he discussed the 
danger that these models are 
trying to predict. Washington 
said that carbon dioxide levels will be two to three times 
higher by 2100 than they were 
two centuries ago.
When asked how he responds to climate change 
skepticism, even in the face 
of evidence like the earlier 
openings of the Northwest 
Passage and overall glacial retreat, Washington responded, 
Skepticism is good for us in 
many ways. It makes [scientists] work harder.
Washington emphasized, 
however, the need for openminded skepticism, and recounted a story of a skeptical 
colleague who changed his 
mind on climate change after 
designing his own experiment 
and achieving the same results as Washington and other 
scientists.
During the lecture, he 
stressed the improvement in 
model design for the global 
climate, from the modern 
high-resolution ocean models to a new atmospheric grid 
structure that allows for more 
accurate simulations of the El 
Nio and the La Nia effects.
His use of empirical data 
and detailed computer models went beyond common 
environmental rhetoric, said 
James Petka, a ?rst-year engineering and public policy and 
chemical engineering double 
major who attended the lecture, in an email. Transforming all of the worlds natural 
forces into a single computer 
program is an absolutely incredible feat.
Coordinator of Student Development M. Shernell Smith, 
who was one of the people 
who worked to bring Washington to campus, said that 
in addition to being accurate, 
Washington was accessible. I 
liked the fact that he was very 
plain-spoken, Smith said. 
He could bring it down to a 
place where people who that 
may not be their interest ... 
can see the effect the changes 
have had on their lives.
Washington addressed two 
strategies that can be implemented to confront climate 
change: mitigation, or the 
reduction or elimination of 
what is causing the problem; 
and adaptation, in which society adjusts to what changes 
will come. 
He said that this problem 
is far different than that of 
typical water or air pollution, 
which fade from the environment within a few years after 
pollutants are restricted, because greenhouse gases take 
so long to break down in the 
atmosphere.
Stopping on this problem late means we have a 
large amount of warming 
in the system that will keep 
on warming for some time, 
Washington said.
Because of this, Washington argued for as much 
mitigation as possible. Geoengineering methods such as 
space mirrors or high altitude 
sulfur injections would limit 
heat levels in the atmosphere; 
but according to Washington, 
they would not solve other 
problems from greenhouse 
pollutants, and in many ways 
are Band-Aids on a broken 
leg. The strategy Washington 
recommended to the audience is to reduce the emission 
of the pollutants themselves.
Without any action done 
to mitigate the effects of climate change, Washingtons 
models and his colleagues 
models predict more heat records, fewer cold records,  and 
stronger rain and snowfall. 
The models predict that these 
weather conditions, coupled 
with severe drought, will result in the northward spread 
of tropical diseases like malaria and yellow fever, as the 
increasing temperatures favor 
their disease vectors.
for the students who have 
worked as employees, he 
said. All good things come to 
an end.
Rubin plans to focus future 
efforts on Con?ict Kitchen, 
which will soon be moving to 
a Downtown location to increase visibility.
The Waf?e Shops closing 
will also have a large impact 
on some other programs, 
such as the Waf?e Wopp, a 
talk show for teens run by the 
mentoring organization HipHop on L.O.C.K.
[The closing is] devastating to the Wopp, and we hope 
we can continue to run this 
program, Jamar Thrasher, 
Chief Communications Of?-
cer for Hip-Hop on L.O.C.K., 
said. We provide this service 
to over 2,000 students.
In the past, the Waf?e Shop 
has provided both equipment 
and its unique environment to 
the Waf?e Wopp. Despite the 
loss this poses for his organization, Thrasher maintains a 
positive attitude. 
We still have a great relationship with the shop. 
We have a huge relationship 
with CMU. I think its great 
[Carnegie Mellon] students 
are involved; we really get to 
see the work ethic of theirs, 
he said.
Sophomore art major Nathan Trevino said that latenight trips to the Waf?e Shop 
are a College of Fine Arts 
tradition. I know almost all 
the art school is going to miss 
the Waf?e Shop. It was just a 
thing that we did. It was late, 
so we went and got waf?es, 
he said.
Trevino summed up his 
opinion of the Waf?e Shop as 
a whole: Go there now.
WAFFLE, from A3
Expert offers climate answers
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
Warren Washington, an atmospheric scientist, said in his talk on 
Tuesday that we must reduce greenhouse pollutant emissions.
Waf?e Shops griddle runs cold
Patrick Gage Kelley/Senior Photographer
Former University President Robert Mehrabian emphasized education and industry during his tenure.
Patrick Gage Kelley/Senior Photographer
Carnegie Mellon Provost Mark Kamlet spoke at the ceremony that named the engineering and science library 
after Roger Sorrells, the late partner of Carnegie Mellon Dean of Libraries Gloriana St. Clair. Sorrells died last 
September of advanced Parkinsons disease.
FEATURE PHOTOLibrary dedicated to Sorrells

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

April 23, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
MICHAEL SETZER
Staffwriter
The 18th Mobot competition was held last Friday. 
The event challenges participants to create complex, 
autonomous machines that 
travel through a course beside 
Doherty and Wean Halls. The 
annual tournament was held 
in conjunction with celebrations for the end of National 
Robotics Week. In addition to 
the Mobot races, there were 
tours of the Robotics Institute, 
lectures, and a reception.
There were three categories for participants: Undergraduates, which included 
undergraduate students at 
Carnegie Mellon; Open 
Class, which included graduate students, faculty, and 
staff; and Exhibition for 
competitors not associated 
with the university. Six teams 
represented the undergraduate competitors, three for the 
Open Class category, and two 
for the Exhibition category.
Each team was allowed 
to run its mobot through the 
course twice and the best performance was judged.
The kilt-wearing announcer, Robotics Institute senior 
research technician Greg 
Armstrong, provided interesting robotics facts and comic 
relief as a large crowd gathered to watch the 11 teams 
prove their craftsmanship, 
dedication, and technical 
know-how.
Participants had their mobots travel through ordered 
gates spread throughout ?at 
and downhill sections. Although speed is a factor, the 
machines were primarily 
judged on their ability to accurately navigate through the 
gates.
And, of course, the mobots 
had to be autonomous, with 
human interaction of any kind 
being prohibited. The participants used sensors to identify 
the white curved line painted 
on the mobot course to guide 
their bots.
The white line, however, 
does not have high contrast to 
the concrete walkway. This aspect proved to be troublesome 
for most of the participants. 
Adding in factors like sunlight 
and shadows, many of the robots werent able to get past 
the ?rst few gates.
The winning team from 
the Undergraduate category 
was Gaussian Blur, comprised 
of senior electrical and computer engineering majors Billy Keyes, Nolan Hergert, and 
Chao Wang. Their hard work 
paid off as they were the only 
team to successfully navigate 
through every gate. The feat 
was accomplished in a time of 
2:13.84.
Wang, who participated 
in the Mobot competition for 
the ?rst time, found that the 
most challenging aspect of 
the competition was allowing 
the software and hardware 
to work together to create a 
cohesive machine. The experience has led him to a new 
interest in robots.
I am not going to do robotics as my career, but it 
de?nitely tickled my interest in robotics. I may ... build 
some new robots after college 
just for fun, Wang said in an 
email.
The Open Class category 
was won by team Pimientos 
Verdes, comprised of Breogan 
Amoedo, Julio Ortiz Villajos 
Maroto, Manuel Lopez Antequera, and Jesus Bonache 
Martinez, all of whom are 
staff members of the Robotics Institute. They were able 
to reach the ?fth gate with a 
time of 1:5.33.
Some of the participants, 
like Exhibition competitor Eli 
Richter, came from outside 
the university. Richter went 
on to win the Judges Choice 
prize. Although he placed 
second in the Exhibition category, making it through gate 
?ve in 29.24 seconds, the 
judges wanted to recognize 
his unique strategy of not following the curved lines.
Richter, who is part of the 
club HackPittsburgh, said 
that hes been a fan of Mobot for years. I grew up in 
Pittsburgh; I grew up watching this race. Its something 
Ive been wanting to do for a 
while, he said.
Richter said that the experience of working with Mobot 
has taught him a lot: I had to 
build the car, I had to design 
the sensors, I had to program 
the robot. It was a really cool 
experience.
Single mobot ?nishes course
AMRITHA PARTHASARATHY
Staffwriter
Repeated thudding noises 
on your window might have 
you looking at small white 
pellets, commonly known as 
hail. Hail is a form of precipitation: Small pieces of ice fall 
from the sky and cause more 
than a billion dollars in damage each year, according to 
the National Weather Service 
Forecast Of?ce.
During severe weather, a 
convective cell can form in 
the air. A convective cell refers to warm air rising and 
cool air sinking in the same 
space. As the warm air rises, 
it cools and eventually turns 
back into liquid form. If the 
air continues rising to where 
the temperature in the atmosphere is below freezing, water will supercool; when there 
is enough of this supercooled 
water, it begins accumulating 
as ice in clouds.
Strong updrafts, also present during severe weather, 
push up on the ice in the 
clouds, keeping them suspended. However, when the 
updraft stops, the ice falls 
down again. The process is 
repeated over and over as the 
ice begins collecting layers to 
form hailstones. According to 
weather.about.com, If you 
cut a hailstone in half, you 
would see alternating concentric layers inside it.
Larger hailstones form 
when the hailstone falls and 
melts as it encounters warmer temperatures only to be 
pulled by updrafts to refreeze. 
Multiple cycles of this process 
can result in extremely large 
hailstones. Hailstones as large 
as eight inches in diameter 
have been found in the central 
United States.
The ideal conditions for 
the formation of hailstones 
are found in tall clouds; these 
reach high into the atmosphere, allowing for a wide 
range of atmospheric temperatures in the cloud. The 
below-freezing temperature 
would be found higher, while 
warmer temperatures would 
be lower. As warm air rises 
within the cloud, it will freeze 
near the top. As it falls, it will 
melt and updrafts will push 
the ice back up the cloud to 
refreeze. Often, swirling updrafts like those found within 
a tornado are ideal for hail 
formation.
A hailstone needs a nucleus to form. An ideal nucleus 
forms when supercooled water droplets or clumps of snow 
gather together to form clusters. According to www.
wisegeek.com, If a bug, a 
piece of dirt, a seed, or another small particle gets blown 
up into the storm cloud, it creates another possible nucleus 
for a hailstone. This nucleus 
serves as a site for ice to build 
up, but it can also melt in 
warmer temperatures and 
collide with other nuclei to 
form larger clusters.
If the weather is cold and 
windy enough, the clusters 
begin to add on layers of ice 
in a process called accretion, 
which is very similar to how 
a candle gains layers when it 
is dipped into wax. Opaque, 
white layers form on hailstones when air bubbles get 
trapped in the icy droplets. 
Clear layers are formed when 
large supercooled water droplets freeze upon contact with 
the emerging hailstone.
As the hailstones grow 
larger, they gain weight, 
which increases the chance of 
being pulled down. If the updrafts are not strong enough 
to counteract the pull of gravity, the hailstones will fall from 
the cloud.
Not every hailstone that 
falls from a cloud will make 
it to the ground. As the hailstones fall, they enter a warmer atmosphere. Therefore, 
hailstones can melt in the atmosphere, never reaching the 
ground as concrete objects; 
these hailstones become rain. 
The outer layers of hailstones also melt when they 
come into contact with other 
precipitation in the air.
Hail showers are not limited to cold weather, since hail 
formation is dependent on 
the temperature in the upper 
atmosphere. On a very warm 
day, for example, the humid 
air can rise very quickly into a 
mass of cold air in the atmosphere and supercool, initiating hail formation.
With a hot and humid 
summer coming up, keep in 
mind that hail can still form. 
It is generally advisable to 
stay inside if hail begins falling, especially since the speed 
at which some fall can be 
harmful. Large hailstones can 
also cause damage to pets, 
outdoor furniture, and vehicles, so moving them inside a 
garage would be ideal protection.
HOW THINGS WORKInner machinations of hailstorms
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
Team Gaussian Blurs mobot was the only competitor to ?nish the course this year.  
DANIEL TKACIK
SciTech Editor
Can computers identify 
good writing as well as humans? According to a recent 
study, they can, and some researchers at Carnegie Mellon 
had a hand in it.
Elijah May?eld, a ?rst-year 
Ph.D. student in the Language 
Technologies Institute (LTI) 
who is advised by LTI professor Carolyn Ros, recently 
participated in a study that 
looked at how various essayscoring software programs 
matched up against human 
graders. After grading 800 
different essays, May?elds 
software, which he developed 
with the help of six other LTI 
researchers, was found to perform just as well as the other 
programs in terms of assigning an overall score.
They performed statistically indistinguishably from 
each other, May?eld said of 
how well the computer programs performed in relation 
to human graders. They all 
were at or slightly above or 
slightly below human performance.
These results are just a 
few years ahead of plans for 
most states to move their current pencil-based standardized tests to computer-based 
ones in 2014, according to National Public Radio. 
The hope is that the switch 
will lessen the cost of administering these tests, as computers would take on more of the 
grading labor. For example, 
Ohio could save as much as 40 
percent on state testing costs 
each year by having computer 
programs play a larger role in 
grading.
Organized by researchers 
at the University of Akron, the 
study compared the scores of 
800 student-written essays 
graded by nine different computer programs, one of which 
was May?elds open-source 
LightSIDE text mining program.
Most of the programs in 
the study learned to grade 
by example. You need to 
Computers grade student essays
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
A mobot passes through the sixth gate as spectators look on.  
Swirling 
updrafts like 
those found 
within a 
tornado are 
ideal for hail 
formation.
See GRADING, A6

---------------------------------------------------

A6  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  April 23, 2012
Adelaide Cole/Art Editor
SCITECH BRIEFS
give it training examples and 
say, This is what Im trying 
to learn to do,  May?eld explained. It will take the text 
and ?gure out how to do all of 
that automatically. In short, 
the programs would take essays that were graded by humans, and try to mimic the 
grading patterns on new essays. May?eld explained that 
this is the goal of machine 
learning.
In assessing the quality of 
an essay, LightSIDE put a lot 
of weight on sentence structure. 
If the program recognizes 
a lot of highly structured and 
complex sentences, then the 
text is likely to be of high 
quality. However, in order to 
spot the complex sentences, 
the program ?rst has to recognize the various pieces, such 
as certain parts of speech, 
that may compose those types 
of sentences.
Youll see things like coordinating clauses or conjunctions, sentences that arent 
just simple statements of 
facts, May?eld said. If youre 
looking at things like prepositional phrases or adverbials, 
all these things dont occur in 
those basic sentences. May?eld explained that LightSIDE searches for these types 
of words and sentence structures because this is what appears to be the elements that 
human graders concentrate 
on in the examples that the 
program learns from.
What the model has 
learned is that for human 
graders, whether they were 
told to or not, its those complex sentences and sentences 
that show a lot of structure 
and causality and coordination that theyre giving high 
scores to, May?eld said.
Some of the other vendors 
took a different approach 
during the essay-grading 
study. Their software looked 
for essay organization, such 
as how the thesis statement 
transitioned into the body 
paragraphs and how it ?owed 
into the conclusion. Those 
methods worked in terms of 
assigning scores to essays that 
were similar to those given 
by human graders, but LightSIDE, despite its more general 
approach on assessing the 
text, did not lag behind in performance.
Even if you use the simple, 
local structure of the sentence 
and the state-of-the-art machine learning, we can manage to match the performance 
of the vendors who are using 
all this complex rubric-based 
technology, May?eld said.
While the computer programs were able to assign a 
single score to an essay just as 
well as human graders could, 
the programs still lack the 
ability to recognize more abstract properties of an essay, 
such as creativity.
As it gets to, Does this 
person have literary worth? Is 
this person creative?, Those 
are questions that are much 
harder for machine learning 
to do, May?eld said. I dont 
think were at a point yet 
in that domain that we can 
match human graders.
Researchers develop LightSIDE program for grading essays
GRADING, from A5If the program recognizes a lot  
of highly structured and complex 
sentences, then the text is likely 
to be of high quality.
New species of gecko discovered in Papua New Guinea
A new species of gecko 
with black and gold bands 
across its body was discovered 
deep in the jungles of Papua 
New Guinea. 
The lizard, which measures about 13 cm in length, 
was given the species name 
Nactus kunan for its distinct 
color pattern  kunan 
means bumblebee in the 
locals Nali language. Its color 
scheme makes it easier for the 
gecko to conceal itself on the 
forest ?oor. 
It belongs to a genus of 
slender-toed geckos, which 
means these guys dont have 
the padded, wall-climbing 
toes like the common house 
gecko, said Robert Fisher of 
the U.S. Geological Survey 
Western Ecological Research 
Center. Fisher, along with 
other biologists, discovered 
the new species.
Source: Reuters
Photoreceptor transplants let blind mice see
Scientists at University 
College London (UCL)s Institute of Ophthalmology have 
restored the sight of nightblind mice by transplanting 
light-sensitive photoreceptor 
cells into their eyes. Nightblindness is a condition that 
effectively renders its victims 
blind in low-light conditions.
Weve shown for the ?rst 
time that transplanted photoreceptor cells can integrate 
successfully with the existing 
retinal circuitry and truly improve vision, said UCL professor Robin Ali in the report. 
Were hopeful that we will 
soon be able to replicate this 
success ... and eventually to 
develop human trials.
Ali and his team claim 
that once their treatment has 
been optimized for human patients, it can be used to treat 
a variety of degenerative eye 
diseases.
Source: UCL Institute of Ophthalmology
Progress made on objective depression diagnosis
A team of Northwestern 
University researchers developed a new method for diagnosing depression through a 
blood test. The team focused 
on early-onset depression, 
which occurs in teens and 
young adults. The researchers identi?ed 26 blood markers for depression based on 
research done on depressed 
and anxious rats, which are 
known to mirror many of the 
behavioral attitudes found in 
human patients. 
From there, the team ran 
tests on 14 teenagers with depression and another 14 without. The tests found 11 blood 
markers in the depressed 
teens that were absent in the 
blood of the non-depressed 
test subjects. The researchers hope their ?ndings pave 
the way for a more objective 
approach to diagnosing earlyonset depression.
Sources: The Huf?ngton Post, 
Scienti?c American
A smile a day keeps the doctor away
A review of more than 200 
studies by Harvard School 
of Public Health researchers 
suggests that happier people 
have a lower risk of heart disease and stroke. 
The researchers revealed 
that factors such as optimism, 
life satisfaction, and general 
happiness reduced a subjects 
risk of heart and circulatory 
diseases, in spite of the subjects age, socioeconomic status, smoking status, or body 
weight. Disease risk was 50 
percent lower in the most optimistic individuals. 
The researchers stressed, 
however, that their work only 
implies this correlation and 
should not be regarded as 
de?nite proof.
Source: BBC
Polar bears did not descend from brown bears
A team of European and 
American scientists are reporting that polar bears, long 
thought to have branched 
off from brown bears about 
150,000 years ago, are not 
at all descended from brown 
bears. The researchers came 
to this conclusion after comparing DNA samples from 19 
polar bears, 18 brown bears, 
and seven black bears. 
Their analysis showed that 
the brown bear and the polar 
bear had a common ancestor, but their lines split about 
600,000 years ago. The new 
?ndings challenge the previously held belief that bears 
adapted very quickly, meaning that the survival of the 
polar bear may be further 
threatened by aggressive climate change.
Source: The New York Times
Microsoft announces Windows 8 lineup
Microsoft has announced 
the main product lineup for 
its upcoming Windows 8 operating system. 
There will be two consumer editions of Windows 8 for 
machines running x86-based 
microprocessors, namely 
Windows 8 for typical users 
and Windows 8 Pro for enthusiasts. 
An alternative version 
called Windows RT will be 
available for upcoming Windows 8 tablets powered by 
ARM processors, but there 
will be no retail availability for this version. An edition 
for large businesses, named 
Windows 8 Enterprise, was 
also announced.
Source: Ars Technica
Compiled by
BENJAMIN MADUEME
Courtesy of the US Geological Survey
The Nactus kunan was named for its distinctive striped color pattern.
Write for SciTechscitech@thetartan.org

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Editorial Staff
 2012 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed 
by Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University. The 
first issue is free; subsequent issues cost $0.50 at the discretion of The Tartan. Subscriptions are 
available on a per semester basis.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
* Denotes executive committee member
StaffEditorial Board
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
CHRISTA HESTER *
Publisher
EMILY DOBLER *
Editor-in-Chief
JOSH SMITH 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN
Copy Manager
JACKSON LANE
Senior Staffwriter
WILL PENMAN
Staffwriter
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Stephanie Guerdan, Patrick 
Gage Kelley, Alan Vangpat
COPY
Rachel Bullen, Connie Chan, Hannah 
Dellabella, Nicole Lee, Sage Po, Taylor Rawley, 
Michael Setzer, Stephanie Stern, Laura Stiles
ADVERTISING
Grace Chung, Seo Young Hwang
JENNIFER COLOMA *
Operations Manager
MADELYN GLYMOUR
News Editor
DANIEL TKACIK
SciTech Editor
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
ALLISON COSBY
Pillbox Editor 
NICOLE HAMILTON
Comics Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Photo Editor
ADELAIDE COLE
Art Editor
ALEX CRICHTON
Systems Manager
KATHY CHEN
Advertising Manager
KENNETH WONG
Business Manager
COURTNEY WITTEKIND *
Contributing Editor
GREG HANNEMAN
Contributing Editor
MARICEL PAZ
Contributing Editor
CELIA LUDWINSKI
Contributing Editor
STACEY CHIN
Contributing Editor
MICHAEL KAHN
Contributing Editor
ANNA WALSH *
Staffwriter
KELLY HARRINGTON
Asst. Systems Manager
BONITA LEUNG
Asst. Copy Manager
BRENT HEARD
Asst. News Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Asst. Pillbox Editor
A8  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  April 23, 2012
U.S. policies on Latin America must change
JOSEPH WHITE
Junior Staffwriter
The recent Summit of the Americas in Cartagena, Colombia, has 
drawn media attention because of 
the Secret Service scandal. Unfortunately, what was discussed at the 
summit has not received as much 
scrutiny by the U.S. media. The 
event had no major achievements 
and, as usual, the Latin American 
countries stood united in pushing 
the U.S. to recognize Cuba.
This summit, however, differed 
from others because the push for 
Cubas recognition and future invitation to the next summit was led by 
Colombia, the United States closest 
ally in the region. This is surprising, 
since the Colombian president is a 
moderate conservative, not known 
for any communist sympathies. 
The U.S. needs to reform its policies and work with the suggestions 
of regional leaders like Colombia in 
order to achieve true progress.
The current U.S. administration 
needs to either recognize Cuba  
thus ending a policy that injures U.S. 
in?uence and respect south of our 
border  or continue our embargo 
on Cuba in order to win the swing 
state of Florida. President Juan 
Manuel Santos of Colombia pointed 
out as much, stating that the current 
administration will fold on the issue 
in three years, presumably after the 
presidential and midterm elections 
have passed, when President Barack 
Obama does not need to appeal to 
the Cuban-American vote in Florida. 
Opening trade with Cuba would 
bene?t the U.S. economy, especially 
southern Florida, and thus bene?t 
the current administration, since 
the U.S. historically was Cubas No. 
1 trading partner. Currently, we lag 
far behind China, Canada, and the 
Netherlands in terms of trade with 
Cuba.
The second unique aspect of 
the summit was Santos leadership 
in the push for ending or at least 
modifying the U.S. War on Drugs. 
Drug production in Colombia has 
decreased over the past six years, 
yet total drug production in Latin 
America has remained unchanged, 
with drug cultivation simply shifting 
borders. The war on drugs in Latin 
America is another failing policy for 
two reasons: It does nothing to affect the so-far inelastic demand in 
the U.S., and the criminalization of 
drugs creates a black market premium. Both of these reasons draw 
the criminal underworld throughout the Americas into the drug 
trade. Because of this, drug production moves from regions with U.S.-
backed anti-narcotic operations to 
regions lacking such aid.
Colombias leadership on both of 
these issues matters to the U.S. not 
only because of its status as an ally, 
but also because  over the past 
decade  Colombia has risen from 
a near-failed state suffering a threesided civil war to a rising star and a 
regional leader. Although the U.S. 
has had a questionable past with 
Latin America, we still can have a 
role to play if we work with our allies and support decisions made 
by democratic leaders of all political stripes in Latin America, even 
if those choices are out of line with 
U.S. foreign policy.
The candidate that wins the 
next presidential election will have 
to compromise with our southern 
neighbors, or see relations cool with  
them. Nicaragua and Ecuador boycotted the summit in protest, and if 
no change is made by the U.S., several more nations will join them in 
three years.
Josh Smith/Forum Editor
Tiered activities fee required for different students
The Joint Funding Committee 
(JFC) ?nalized student organizations budgets this past week, giving us an opportune moment to talk 
about everyones favorite subject: 
money.
If youre not involved in any clubs 
on campus, you might think that JFC 
allocations dont affect you, but we 
argue otherwise. The Student Activities Fee is currently $92 a semester 
(thats $184 a year), and a large portion of it is allocated to JFC, which 
in turn allocates it to student organizations. The newly elected student 
body vice president for ?nance wants 
to increase that fee by 20 percent.
If you havent looked at the budgets that just came out, we encourage you to do so. Anyone with an 
Andrew ID can view them at stugov.
andrew.cmu.edu/budgettracker. 
The site isnt well-known outside of 
the world of student activities, but 
we ?gure if students are paying $184 
annually, they might as well know 
how that money is being put to use. 
This year, the JFC allocated a total of 
$1,120,719.36 to 203 organizations. 
Thats a lot of money, and thats just 
the Pittsburgh campus.
The problem with the activities 
fee is that its the same across the 
board. All students  undergraduate and graduate students both in 
Pittsburgh and Qatar  have to pay 
that same activities fee, whether 
they use it or not. 
While it would be impossible to 
establish fees directly proportional 
to an individuals involvement in 
clubs and campus activities, setting 
the same activities fee for undergraduate, graduate, and Qatar students is unfair. If you look at the JFC 
budgets for this year, its clear that 
Carnegie Mellons Pittsburgh undergraduate population takes the most 
advantage of the activities fee. In 
fact, an increase in the fee would be 
a good thing  for undergraduates. 
It would allow more organizations to 
be recognized and to get the budgets 
they really need to do exciting things 
on campus.
An increase in the activities fee 
would not, however, bene?t Qatar 
or graduate students as much. Qatar 
hardly ever uses its entire allocated 
activities fee, and the surplus isnt 
used immediately for the bene?t of 
students but instead goes into the 
Qatar Foundation. Similarly, while 
graduate students on the Pittsburgh 
campus may participate in their own 
organizations as well as the same 
clubs and activities that undergraduate students participate in, they depend primarily on individual departments for event funding.
In 2009, a Campus Conversations report conducted by Student 
Activities found that 29.2 percent 
of students polled on the Pittsburgh 
campus wanted the activities fee to 
remain the same. On the Qatar campus, 77.5 percent of students polled 
wanted the fee to remain the same. 
When students were asked about the 
maximum increase they would support, the overwhelming responses 
were either 10 percent or 0 percent.
If the activities fee must be increased, measures should be taken 
to differentiate among undergraduates, graduates, and Qatar students. 
Its time that the fee was separated 
into different sections, with Pittsburgh undergraduates paying one 
fee, graduates paying a different 
fee, and Qatar students also paying 
a different fee. This way, the fee can 
be utilized in the speci?c ways that 
each group needs. After all, the student activities fee should be just that 
 for the bene?t of the students.
Spring Carnival booths need more variety every year
Booth is one of the most noticeable and celebrated events of Spring 
Carnival. It is the only festivity that 
is truly affected by the overarching 
theme of Carnival every year; no 
other activity, such as Sweepstakes 
or the annual ScotchnSoda show, 
depends on an interpretation of the 
Spring Carnival theme.
This year, the theme was As 
Seen On TV. Immediately, this idea 
brought to mind the notorious store 
with the same name (found in your 
local strip mall, of course). 
The announcement of the theme 
is always exciting; students cant 
help but wonder what diverse and 
creative booths will come out of each 
organization. This sets up a certain 
expectation for Booth, and potential 
disappointment. Student organizations participating in Booth should 
be aware of similar themes over the 
years and should strive to challenge 
themselves to build unique booths.
Student organizations this year 
seemed to literally interpret the 
theme and centered their booth 
themes on television shows. 
This in itself is completely ?ne, 
but the booths were strikingly similar to last years booths. Spring Carnival 2011s theme was When I Was 
Your Age and the booths featured 
blasts from childhood pasts. This 
years booths did not exactly differentiate themselves from last years 
counterparts: Themes such as Looney Tunes, Blues Clues, and Spongebob Squarepants were all present this 
year. While these shows obviously 
fell under As Seen On TV, they are 
also ?tting for When I Was Your 
Age.
While cartoon shows and other 
television programs comprise of 
a signi?cant part of our youth, a 
greater distinction needs to be made 
between booths from one year to the 
next. Part of the problem lies with 
theme variety.
Spring Carnival themes have the 
tendency of being recycled after so 
many years, with novels, TV shows, 
history, childhood, and locations 
around the world being topics that 
consistently appear.
However, to come up with a 
completely new and original Carnival theme every year would be 
impossible. 
Thus, it also falls upon the student organizations participating in 
Booth to create variety from year 
to year. Students involved in Booth 
should recognize whether similar 
booth ideas have happened within 
their time at Carnegie Mellon, and 
should thus strive to create a unique 
experience for annual visitors of 
Midway during Spring Carnival.
This similarity between booth 
themes from last years Carnival and 
the current one is disappointing. 
The Spring Carnival theme should 
inspire organizations to tackle something theyve never tackled before, 
push their creativity, and produce 
something wholly original. 
The point of changing the overarching theme each year is so organizations cant just simply recycle their 
old ideas; it is to prompt ingenuity 
and imagination.
Courtesy of the U.S. Defense Department on Wikipedia
At the Summit of the Americas, President of Colombia Juan Manuel Santos stated that 
that the U.S. will fold on the issue of lifting the embargo with Cuba within three years.
The current U.S. 
administration 
needs to either 
recognize Cuba 
 thus ending a 
policy that injures 
U.S. in?uence 
and respect south 
of our border  
or continue our 
embargo on Cuba 
in order to win 
the swing state of 
Florida.

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
Compiled by Jonathan Carreon and Jennifer Coloma
Spring Carnival was this past weekend. So we asked,
In one word, how was your Spring Carnival?
April 23, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A9
Hologram performances diminish worth of live concerts
MATT MASTRICOVA
The relationship between a musicians life and the consumption of his 
or her creative output is pretty unpredictable. This past February, both 
Sony and Apple were slammed for increasing the price of Whitney Houstons albums The Ultimate Collection 
and The Greatest Hits in the United 
Kingdom iTunes store within a day of 
her death.
Yet when deceased rapper Tupac 
Shakur showed up for a surprise 
performance at Coachella via computer projection with Dr. Dre and 
Snoop Dogg, it was generally positively received. 
While there is a huge difference 
between raising the price of an artists work less than 24 hours after her 
death (regardless of whether it was 
because of an pricing error, as Sony 
stated) and re-animating the dead, 
there is a de?nite factor of irreverence associated with both.
Contrary to popular belief, the 
Tupac that appeared was not a hologram. It was actually a commercialized version of an illusion called Peppers ghost, which projects an image 
onto a mirror positioned to re?ect the 
image on a piece of thin mesh hung 
over the front of the stage, creating 
the illusion of a three dimensional 
?gure. It has angles and shades that 
give the illusion of depth, but in reality it is simply an image. Dr. Dre has 
stated that he intends to take this 
Pac-o-Gram on tour in the near 
future. There is very little about this 
decision that can be viewed as redeemable. The idea of a dead rapper 
performing live is not only creepy, 
but ultimately degrades Tupac as a 
performer and musician.
It is impossible for any two live 
performances to be the same. With 
Peppers ghost, however, this variability is ?attened. Each performance 
must be perfectly choreographed beforehand, which destroys the spontaneity of a live concert. And really, 
whats the point of a concert if there 
is no spontaneity? However, this 
is not what is most sinister about 
Pac-o-Gram.
One of the reasons that Tupac is 
so loved is his singularity as a musician. With Pac-o-Gram, you might 
be able to see Tupac perform at Madison Square Garden, and then see him 
perform again at a bar two blocks 
away 30 minutes later. Thus, his 
uniqueness is essentially destroyed. 
It is tacky, tasteless, and disrespectful 
of musicians. But even more frighteningly, it suggests that musicians 
are more valuable dead than they are 
alive.
Tupacs posthumous discography 
is notoriously huge. Eight albums 
have been credited to him since his 
death and this is merely the next 
step in the desecration of his memory. Make no mistake; his duet with 
Snoop Dogg at Coachella was awesome to watch and was by all means 
unexpected. But this is no different 
than releasing eight albums of new 
material posthumously or raising the 
album prices of an artists work immediately after his or her death.
This is a move motivated by 
greed and will only succeed in 
watering down Tupacs reputation. 
While death is unfortunate and inevitable, it brings a certain solemnity 
and gravitas to an artists work that 
is inimitable. This zombi?cation is incredibly disrespectful.
Matt Mastricova (mmastric@) is a 
staffwriter for The Tartan.Josh Smith/Forum Editor
Club leaders require a new vision
JESSE KUMMER
My name is Jesse Kummer. I am 
the former captain and current treasurer for the ultimate Frisbee team 
at Carnegie Mellon. I want to discuss 
leadership.
Having been on the team for ?ve 
years, I have seen many different personalities in charge. We have all run 
the team differently. Through this, I 
have learned that the dynamic of any 
team can be partially predicted by 
the actions of the person in charge 
of said team. I strongly believe that a 
person in charge should be someone 
who has been focused toward the organizations achievements for quite 
some time.
First of all, a leader has to be 
someone who is willing to take on 
the role. It should not be someone 
who is thrust into the role due to 
outside shenanigans. The president 
or captain of an organization must 
express that desire to other members 
of the group. 
Once that has been accomplished, 
a potential leader should outline a 
de?nitive set of goals he or she hopes 
to accomplish while in of?ce. Without a de?nitive set of goals, there 
cannot be a system of checks upon 
that leader. Everything that a leader 
does needs to be checked alongside 
his or her goals for the organization. 
If something does not match up, a 
member should be able to call the 
leader out and know why he or she is 
doing a certain thing.
Having open communication is 
an integral part of any group dynamic. Anyone should be able to speak 
to the leader or some sort of adviser or coach and add his or her own 
thoughts on what the organization 
should be doing. Without outside 
checks and balances, an organization may run amok and focus more 
on holding steady instead of rising 
up and accomplishing new goals.
Leadership is more than just 
wanting some organization to 
succeed. It is wanting to rise up and 
soar to new heights. Regardless of 
what group you are in, there is always some vision you have yet to 
achieve. I believe it is the charge of 
any leader to ?gure out the best way 
to improve either the talent or the 
visibility of his or her organization.
A leader cannot be simply a holdover for the next person. It cannot 
be just a title that is passed down. 
There needs to be a vision; it could 
be something as simple as improving 
alumni relations or as deep as changing the entire team dynamic. The 
point is that there needs to be something unique being brought to the 
team. If that is not happening, then 
there needs to be a discussion about 
what the organization needs at that 
point in time.
Electing a new leader is a huge 
issue for any organization. It can 
end up being a boom or a bust. It is 
imperative that the organization understands this beforehand and forces 
those who wish to lead to come up 
with a plan of action. If this is not 
done, I fear that a group will stagnate and accomplish little in the upcoming year.
Good luck to every organization 
that will be experiencing a change 
in leadership this coming semester. 
I hope you have passionate individuals looking to take the reins.
Jesse Kummer (jkummer@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
Austin police need to right death of canine
CONNIE CHAN
Junior Staffwriter
On April 14, in Austin, Tx., police 
of?cer Thomas Grif?n gunned down 
a mans dog after reporting to the 
wrong house. 
The woman who made the call 
was reporting a case of domestic 
disturbance to the police, but gave 
Grif?n the incorrect address. Consequently, Grif?n arrived at the house 
of Michael Paxton, who was playing 
with his Blue Heeler named Cisco in 
his backyard. Paxton was going to 
retrieve something from his truck in 
the driveway when he encountered 
Grif?n, who immediately pulled a 
gun on him. 
Following behind, an alarmed 
Cisco barked and began advancing toward Grif?n. Paxton  who 
was still at gunpoint and unable to 
restrain Cisco  begged the of?cer 
not to shoot his dog, stating that he 
would not bite. Grif?n ignored Paxtons pleas and pulled the trigger, 
killing Cisco.
Some claim that Grif?n was in 
a stressful situation, not knowing 
what to expect. But in any case, Grif?n was responding to a domestic 
disturbance call and was ready to 
use a gun. 
Not only did Grif?n hold an innocent man at gunpoint, he also 
used deadly force on an animal 
that never attempted to attack him. 
Cisco was only barking and did not 
make contact with Grif?n. Paxton 
claimed Cisco was docile and had 
never acted aggressively toward 
anyone. Nonetheless, Grif?n pulled 
the trigger and Cisco suffered for the 
of?cers unwarranted reaction to the 
situation
I understand that Grif?n faced 
an unpredictable situation when 
responding to Paxtons house, but 
arent all police reports unpredictable? Of?cers are trained to handle 
stressful situations and unusual circumstances better than the average 
citizen. 
An advantage of organized law 
enforcement is standardizing how 
potentially threatening situations 
are handled by of?cers of the law. 
Police training reiterates these measures  one of the most important 
being that deadly force should only 
be used as a last resort. As a police 
of?cer, Grif?n failed to respond 
reasonably.
The most angering aspect about 
this situation is that Grif?n is not 
currently facing any repercussions. 
The Austin police department 
has done nothing to reprimand 
him for his lack of sagacity, claiming he acted in self-defense. Paxton 
has only received an apology from 
police chief Art Acevedo, not even 
from Grif?n himself. In a video Paxton took after the incident, Grif?n 
looks less than remorseful, making 
a shrugging gesture with his hands. 
Grif?n had even tried to shift the 
blame, asking Paxton, Why didnt 
you get the dog? Apparently, being held at gunpoint is not an excuse 
anymore.
An online petition called Justice 
for Cisco urges the Austin police department to reprimand Grif?n. The 
petition currently has over 32,000 
signatures, well on its way to the 
goal of 50,000. 
I am disgusted by the Austin police departments apathy to such a 
breach of justice. They need to recognize their wrongdoings, or people 
will continue to suffer from similar 
mistakes and rash actions made by 
law enforcement in the future. 
The Austin police department 
has neglected its duty to righteousness; it is now our job to preserve it.
The petition can be found at 
www.change.org.
Adelaide Cole/Art Editor
Aileen Craig
CivE
Senior
Entertaining.
Matt Ho
Architecture
Third-year
Awesome.
Areej Ali
Biology
Junior
Fun.
Jon Soyt
Business Administration & MechE
Senior
Supercalifragilisticexpialidocious.
Claire Chan
Computer Science
First-year
Amazing.

---------------------------------------------------

April 23, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A10
Womens track and ?eldcompetes in two invites
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
Carnegie Mellons womens track and ?eld team have 
competed at invitationals the 
past two weekends, setting 
several season bests and career highs.
Last Saturday, womens 
track and ?eld went to Indiana University of Pennsylvania to compete in the Ed Fry 
Invitational. The other competing teams were Indiana 
University of Pennsylvania, 
California University of Pennsylvania, Grove City College, 
Slippery Rock University, 
Clarion University, Pennsylvania State University, Penn 
State Behrend, and Seton Hill 
University.
Junior Tori Baggio scored 
her career best in the high 
jump, placing eighth after 
clearing 1.43 meters. In the 
discus event, junior Sarah 
Menio threw 32.02 meters 
and sophomore Samantha 
Oleson threw 26.22 meters, 
placing ?fth and ninth, respectively. Oleson also placed 
eighth in the hammer throw 
with 37.18 meters.
Sophomore Kelsey Hallinen ?nished eighth in the 
400-meter hurdles, scoring a 
time of 1:11.68.
On April 14, the womens 
team competed in the Dave 
Labor Invitational hosted 
by Slippery Rock. First-year 
Sasha Spalding recorded a 
season-best 200-meter race 
time of 26.67 seconds, which 
placed her second. Senior 
Ivana Moses went for a season-best 13.17 seconds in 
the 100-meter dash for third 
place.
Moses also competed in 
the long jump, placing second with a distance of 4.77 
meters. First-year Stephanie 
Chen long jumped 4.62 meters to ?nish in third place.
Named the  University Athletic Assocation Athlete of the 
Week for the third time this 
season, sophomore Jacqueline Guevel won the 400-meter hurdles with a time of 
1:03.61. Guevel ?nished second in the 100-meter hurdles 
with a time of 14.50. 
Oleson threw 39.67 meters 
in the hammer throw for a 
personal best, placing fourth.
Carnegie Mellon hosts the 
University Athletic Association Championships this Saturday and Sunday at Gesling 
Stadium. The event will start 
at 10 a.m. 
File Photo by Jonathan Carreon
Senior Kaitlan Ahrens threw 9.27 meters in shotput Saturday at the Ed Fry Invitational.
Hockey to lose four seniors
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-editor
After an unexpected playoff run for Carnegie Mellon 
club hockey, the team bids 
farewell to its graduating 
teammates: senior center 
Chaten Boscha, senior goalie 
Torrey Brenner, senior forward Ephraim Hathaway, 
and senior defenseman Dan 
Behmke. The team is losing its 
offensive ?repower in Boscha 
and Hathaway as well as its 
dominant defense in Brenner 
and Behmke.
The senior class has continuously ensured we have 
a solid offense and defense. 
It is going to be tough trying 
to piece together lines when 
such talented players leave, 
said sophomore defender and 
winger Bryn Loef?er.
The team will make extensive efforts to recruit ?rstyears to join the team in the 
fall. Were going to have to 
recruit a lot of freshmen for all 
positions on the ice to ?ll this 
void, Loef?er said.
With so many big contributors leaving, junior forward 
Andrew McCoy and sophomore winger Keith Hoover 
will be next to lead the club 
hockey team. The two were 
the nonsenior point leaders 
for the team and will be expected to carry a heavier load 
next season.
Keiths line, with Mike 
[Purowitz] centering him 
and Tye [Lampl] on the other 
wing, have a great opportunity to help ?ll the shoes of the 
seniors. They worked so well 
together and really understand how to move the puck 
and communicate with each 
other, Loef?er said.
Boscha led the Tartans in 
output throughout the season. His 48 points were by far 
the most on the team, scoring 
28 goals and dishing 20 assists. McCoy was second on 
the team with 30 points, and 
Hathaway was third with 27.
The Carnegie Mellon club 
hockey team began their playoff run in February. Despite 
not having the home advantage, the Tartans beat the University of Pittsburgh, Greensburg Bobcats 81 in the 
playoff opener. This playoff 
win was the ?rst for the Carnegie Mellon hockey team in 
17 years. The following game 
was also without home ice 
advantage. The Tartans faced 
the Medaille College Mavericks and won 41. In the 
grand ?nale of the 201112 
season on Feb. 26, the Tartans 
faced the California University of Pennsylvania Vulcans 
in the championship round, 
losing 85.
Winning in the playoffs came down largely to 
Brenners spectacular play in 
goal. We beat the ?rst place 
[Mavericks] team 41 despite 
giving up nearly sixty shots on 
goal. He was utterly indomitable, Boscha said.
During the championships, 
Brenner recorded a .895 save 
percentage on the season, 
but his .981 save percentage 
in the 41 victory over the 
Mavericks was essential to the 
Tartans victory. He saved 53 
of the 54 shots on goal.
We had a great season 
and were so close to a championship. We fell behind early 
and could not make a comeback to win it in the end like 
we had been able to do all season, said sophomore defensive player Kevin Fulton.
The 201213 season will 
begin in September, but no 
games are scheduled yet.
Frisbee prepares for regional
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
Mr. Yuk, the Carnegie Mellon ultimate Frisbee A team, 
traveled across Pennsylvania the past two weekends to 
compete against other teams 
for a spot at the upcoming 
Ohio Valley Regionals.
The team participated in 
the Western Pennsylvania 
Conference Tournament that 
was held April 1415 in Trafford, Pa. The University of 
Pittsburgh was the ?rst seed, 
followed by Shippensburg 
University and Pennsylvania 
State University as the second 
and third seeds, respectively. 
Mr. Yuk was seeded fourth.
Only the top six from the 
tournament advance to the 
Ohio Valley Regionals. Ohio 
University, Ohio State University, Case Western Reserve 
University, University of Cincinnati, Toledo University, 
University of Dayton, Wright 
State, Millersville University, 
and University of Pennsylvania have already advanced 
from the Ohio and East Pennsylvania Conferences. 
On the ?rst day of competition, Mr. Yuk faced the Edinboro University Fighting Scots 
and won 1511. After, they 
fell to the University of Pittsburgh Panthers 159. Mr. Yuk 
took the next game against 
Indiana University of Pennsylvania Crimson Hawks 159, 
before ?nally falling 158 to 
the Penn State Nittany Lions.
On Sunday, Mr. Yuk won 
both of its games. First the 
team beat West Virginia University 154, and then the 
team was victorious over 
the Shippensburg University 
Raiders, 159.
Because of the teams victories at the Western Pennsylvania Conference Tournament, Mr. Yuk advanced to 
the third seed for the regional 
tournament in State College, 
Pa., next weekend. Ultimate 
Frisbee teams from the University of Pittsburgh and Penn 
State will also participate and 
will provide tough competition for Mr. Yuk.
The top two ?nishing 
teams at the Ohio Valley Regionals will advance to college nationals in Boulder, 
Colo.
Penguins defense needs mending in off-season
CARL GLAZER
Staffwriter
In a year ?lled with attention-grabbing headlines and 
news-?lling brawls, the Pittsburgh Penguins season ended with more of a ?zzle than a 
bang. Although the Penguins 
came back 32 after being 
down 30 in the ?rst round 
with the Philadelphia Flyers, 
the team ultimately could not 
overcome its defensive struggles and fell 51 on Sunday to 
lose the series.
Throughout the regular 
season, the Penguins hid its 
defensive weaknesses behind 
stellar offensive play. It was 
easy to mask giving up two or 
three goals a game when the 
offense consistently scored 
three to four goals. Even the 
statistics were deceptive; the 
defensive metrics ranked the 
Penguins defense as the 15th 
best in the league. But one 
look at its series against the 
Flyers quickly reveals that it is 
not even close to a championship-caliber defense.
The Penguins goaltender 
Marc-Andr Fleury took a 
beating this year due to his 
teams porous defense. He is 
still one of the better goalies 
in the league, but it puts a lot 
of strain on a goalies body 
when he is expected to stop 
nearly 40 shots every night. 
When Fleury is on top of his 
game, the Penguins are one 
of the leagues best with the 
high-octane offense backed 
up by solid goalkeeping.
During its last off-season, 
the Penguins biggest issue 
was the health of captain Sidney Crosby, but with his successful recovery, the Penguins 
can focus on more pressing 
problems. The teams offense 
was ranked No. 1 this season, 
and most of the main scorers 
are still under contract. Winger Steve Sullivan is an unrestricted free agent. With an 
expected increase in the salary cap, along with the hope 
of reworking Crosbys and alternate captain Jordan Staals 
contracts to sign them long 
term, there will be at least 
$5 million of cap space. This 
should be more than enough 
to resign Sullivan while still 
keeping a fair amount of salary ?exibility.
On the defensive end, the 
Penguins need a lot of help. 
Defenders Matt Niskanen and 
Brian Strait are both restricted free agents, meaning the 
team gets to match any offer 
made by others if they want to 
resign them. 
The Penguins may be better off letting both these players walk and promoting one of 
their young defenders, while 
using their extra cap space to 
sign a young second-tier defender such as current Montreal Maple Leafs defender 
Chris Campoli or Dallas Star 
defender Sheldon Souray. Another option would be not to 
resign any of their free agents 
and go after a top tier defender like Washington Capitals 
player Dennis Wideman or 
Nashville Predators blue-liner 
Ryan Suter. 
Regardless of their needs 
this off-season, the Penguins 
will be returning most of the 
same players from this season. The key for the team is to 
?nd the few pieces it needs to 
toughen up defense and allow 
Fleury to make it through the 
season, in order to allow its 
high-powered offense to carry them to all the way to the 
Stanley Cup Finals.
Courtesy of Thebeev via Flickr
A healthy Sidney Crosby will be key for the Penguins next season.
SDC sweeps Buggy races
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
The preliminary races 
of the 92nd annual Sweepstakes competition, colloquially known at Carnegie Mellon as Buggy, took place this 
past Friday morning. Eleven 
different organizations were 
represented in this years 
competition. 
This is the ?rst year that 
Carnegie Mellon had a corporate sponsor for the design 
competition. Chrysler judged 
the buggies based on design, 
and upped the stakes by providing prize money for  the 
?rst, second, and third place 
winners.
The teams had been training for the Spring Carnival 
competition since September, 
and by the time the preliminary races rolled around on 
Friday, they were ready to go. 
The preliminaries began with 
womens heats, and the mens 
heats followed shortly. 
The nice weather and sunny skies from Friday turned 
sour for the ?nals on Saturday. The start time of the 
womens ?nals was moved 
up to 8 a.m. because off a 
last-minute decision made by 
the Sweepstakes Committee. 
The mens races were about 
to start when rain began to 
fall and the mens ?nals were 
cancelled. This resulted in the 
mens preliminary scores being used as their ?nal scores. 
The Student Dormitory 
Council (SDC) took home 
both the mens and womens 
?rst place trophies. This is the 
second time that SDC won 
both mens and womens races in the past four years.
The Fringe womens A 
team buggy, Bonsai, had 
an unfortunate crash in the 
preliminaries. Fortunately, 
Bonsai was the only buggy 
that crashed this year. It was 
the ?rst crash for senior architecture major Becky Peterkin, 
who has been racing for four 
years. She crashed into the 
hay-bales when she was turning into the Chute. The crash 
was attributed to a mechanical error involving the wheel. 
Peterkin was not injured, but 
was emotionally shaken up; 
luckily, she was able to put the 
crash behind her and move 
forward. Later that day, Peterkin was able to race again for 
the Fringe mens A team.
It was a fantastic year 
and I am so proud to be a 
part of Fringe, said ?rst-year 
computer science major and 
Fringe pusher Lydia Utkin. 
Its disappointing that we 
crashed because, by times, 
anything could have happened. But thats part of the 
sport, and the teams who won 
deserve it. I cant wait for next 
year and another shot at the 
big trophy! 
The womens preliminary 
times were re?ected in the 
?nal runs as SDC-A came 
in ?rst at 2:30.903, slowing 
down from a preliminary run 
of 2:30.684. SDC-B came 
in second place with a time 
of 2:37.346, also slowing 
from a preliminary run time 
of 2:37.304. In third place 
was SigEp-A with a time of 
2:41.147, improving from a 
preliminary time of 2:42.356.
The mens results were 
based off their preliminary 
runs due to rain. In ?rst place 
was SDC-A with a time of 
2:05.841, the eighth fastest in 
the history of Buggy. Fringe-A 
?nished second with a time 
of 2:07.134, and SDC-B took 
the bronze with a time of 
2:08.212.
Buggy is a really exciting event that Im proud to 
be a part of, said third-year 
architecture major Kyle Woltersdorf, who pushed Hill 1 
for PiKA-A. Its the tradition that keeps me connected 
with hundreds of alumni who 
come back to see us compete. 
PiKA-A ?nished ?fth in the 
mens races with a time of 
2:10.194.
This years Sweepstakes 
has shown growth and maturity in teams, as SPIRIT took 
time to work on the mechanical layout of its buggies in 
an effort to increase safety. 
A new team, Apex, was comprised entirely of ?rst-year 
residents and was supported 
by other organizations to start 
its own buggy program in 
January. Apex won the Spirit 
of Buggy award this year.
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
Junior Neil Goeckner pushes Fringe-Cs buggy across the ?nish line.

---------------------------------------------------

Booth Review
Student organizations widely interpret 
this years Carnival theme  B16
04.23.12 Volume 106, Issue 26
Passion Pit
The indie pop band performs on 
the CFA lawn  B5

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Fun at the dentist and remembering games of 
the past. This and more in this weeks comics.
11
Dollar Movie
AB Films presents four movies this week at 
McConomy Auditorium.
7
Paperhouse
Paperhouse talks about the emotionless music 
of Monolake.
9
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2012 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Christa Hester EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Emily Dobler
PILLBOX EDITOR Allison Cosby ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen COMICS EDITOR Nicole Hamilton 
ART EDITOR Adelaide Cole PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Carreon 
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Juan Fernandez
5
46
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about 
treacherous wingmen and awkward reunions.
3
...diversions
...this week only
Downton Abbey
School of Drama hosts a costume design tour 
of popular historical drama.
3
ScotchnSoda
The Drowsy Chaperone captivates viewers with 
hilarious drama and thoughtful commentary.
4
Passion Pit
The indie pop bands exciting performance 
ends Spring Carnival with a bang.
5
Nick Offerman
The Parks and Recreation actor gives heartfelt 
advice to students during his comedy act.
6
Holi
The Hindu holiday offers a colorful and 
entertaining celebration of the new season.
7
Downhill Derby
The College of Fine Arts showcases its playful 
version of Carnival traditions.
8
Photo spreads
Take a look at this weeks special photo spread 
to view highlights of Spring Carnival 2012.
10
Did You Know?
Did you know that live goldfish were abused 
during Spring Carnival 2002?
10
Puzzles
Killer Sudoku is back. Test your skills at this 
two-in-one mental exercise. 
13
Horoscopes
This weeks special Hungover-oscopes will 
help you find items lost from Carnival fun.
14
Calendar
Check out this list of events happening on and 
off campus this week.
15
Booth review
Consult this guide to descriptions, themes, and 
winners of this years Booth contest.
16
Woods concert
The psychedelic folk band presented an 
alternative to the Carnival concert.
18

---------------------------------------------------

theater
pillbox 04.23.123
Costume tour charms guests
School of Drama staff offers insight into Downton Abbey
The way the event was advertised, one would have 
thought that costumes from the immensely popular 
British drama Downton Abbey would have been on 
display in the lobby of the Purnell Center for the Arts 
last Friday afternoon. Instead, it ended up being a 
tour of the costume shop and a commentary on both 
the drama schools collection of historical clothing 
and on the clothing used in the BBC show, which 
 while a bit of a surprise to the 2030 visitors who 
attended  was nonetheless fascinating.
The tour began with a short interview with the 
schools costume design shop manager Ken Chu, 
who described his job and that of students and staff 
working in the School of Dramas costume shop. He 
half-joked that his department is one of the busiest 
in the school, providing costumes for about 22 shows 
per year, which is a staggering number compared 
to the 1012 shows per year produced by regional 
theater companies. But everyone says that [theyre 
the busiest], he said smiling.
Chu and Amanda Jenkins, the wardrobe supervisor 
and rentals manager, then led the group upstairs to 
the costume shop, where some of the schools period 
dresses were on display. Some of these dresses are 
from as early as 1870, Chu said, pointing at a floralpattern dress that was originally white, but has since 
faded and thinned like old parchment.
Chu and Jenkins were joined by costume staffers 
Marlene Speranza and Leslie Maxson, described 
by Chu as the staff tailor and draper, respectively. 
Jenkins then took the floor to talk about what 
everyone was actually there for: the costumes of 
Downton Abbey.
She pulled out two copies of what looked like a 
ragged, book-bound newspaper with miniscule 
type and expert drawings of extremely tall, turn-ofthe-century-fashioned women. These were fashion 
magazines from around the era of the second season 
of Downton Abbey, around the beginning of World 
War I. The costumes in the show attempt to be true 
representations of how the wealthy upstairs people 
would have dressed at the time, Jenkins said.
In the first season, set in the late Edwardian era 
(the season opens with the sinking of the Titanic in 
1912), the in-style look was slim and column-like  a 
tunic/hobble-skirt look, as Jenkins called it. Since 
women werent exactly industrial workers at the 
time, the dresses  although more comfortable than 
the corsets and voluptuous gowns of earlier eras  
were still not made for quick movement. Theyre not 
called hobble-skirts for no reason, Jenkins said.
As time progresses in the show, so does the 
wardrobe: In one episode, one of the younger female 
characters, Sybil, wears harem pants, much to the 
horror and surprise of some of the other characters 
(actress Maggie Smiths character was not amused).
Jenkins, who often works with clothing rentals for 
film, noted that the show is very realistic about how 
often women changed their clothes in this period. 
Even wealthy families were not so rich as to have 
closets packed with hand-made dresses and gowns; 
thus, women would have a few choice morning 
and day dresses, and would dress again later in an 
evening gown. If one watches the wardrobe in the 
show carefully, one notices that characters reuse 
their gowns very often.
Speranza commented that, while the show is rather 
true to the past, the womens hair is toned down in 
Downton Abbey from what it actually would have 
been like in the 1910s. The costumers also have to 
think about their audience, she said. It would have 
been much more extreme, and pretty distracting, if 
they made the hair how it would have been at the 
time, Speranza explained.
The Carnegie Mellon costume shop staff suspects 
that Downton Abbeys third season will open with 
more Jazz Age-style costumes, since it will be set in 
1920. Season three wont begin airing until next year.
Evan Kahn | Copy Manager
Advice for awkward people
Dear Patrick,
My friend cant help 
himself around women, 
especially when hes been 
drinking. He usually just 
makes an ass of himself, 
but recently he keeps 
going after the same 
women as me. Last time 
he started off trying to 
wingman me and wound 
up spending the night 
with her. Whats the 
most acceptable form of 
punishment?
Thanks,
Babes Lacking, Other 
Chap Keeps Enchanting 
Dames
Dear BLOCKED,
Your friend sounds like a 
terrible wingman. He seems 
to have skipped over that 
entire chapter in the Bro 
Code. However, his actions 
could just be because of 
poor communication. In that 
case, make sure he knows 
what girl youre interested in 
and vice-versa so theres no 
conflict.
Now that may help you 
in the future, but he still 
needs to know that there 
are consequences for his 
previous actions. As the 
bigger man, you wont hold 
a grudge, but you may want 
to remind him that accidents 
do happen. Maybe his 
brakelines get cut. Maybe he 
wakes up with a dolls head 
in his bed. Maybe his face 
just accidentally runs into 
your fist.
Its not assault if he 
deserves it,
Patrick Hoskins
Dear Patrick,
I recently graduated, but 
came back to Carnegie 
Mellon for Spring 
Carnival. While here, I 
cant help running into 
people I didnt want to 
see or talk to. How can I 
avoid them in the future 
without seeming rude?
Sincerely,
Just Avoiding Greetings, 
Otherwise Feeling 
Flustered
Dear JAGOFF,
You have a few options. 
First, you can just never 
come to Carnegie Mellon 
again. This is probably the 
easiest option, but you may 
miss out on some important 
events, like your brothers 
graduation. That might 
not matter to you, but you 
probably dont want to deal 
with your parents yelling.
Instead, try projecting the 
right attitude. The key is to 
seem busy. However, that 
may be harder than it looks. 
All you have to do is appear 
angry. Angry people always 
have something to do, and 
no one wants to spend time 
with them. Just apologize 
angrily and say you have to 
go. Theyll be too put off to 
keep talking.
If it worked for George 
Costanza, itll work for 
you,
Patrick Hoskins
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About wingmen and reunions
Courtesy of Evian Tsai via Flickr
Actress Maggie Smith (center) stars on Downton 
Abbey, a show known for its accurate costuming.

---------------------------------------------------

4theater
pillbox 04.23.12
From the moment the lights dimmed, it was clear that 
The Drowsy Chaperone was not your conventional 
Broadway musical. The whining voice of the narrator 
instantly made an impression with his grumbling 
criticism: I hate theater. Well, its so disappointing, isnt 
it?
These ?rst lines were certainly an unusual way to gain 
the audiences favor with any theater production, but 
it became clear as the story unfolded that the creators 
of the musical knew exactly what they were doing. 
With its playful approach to the fourth wall, The Drowsy 
Chaperone, as portrayed by members of ScotchnSoda, 
celebrated and satirized theater.
The musical, which takes place in the 1920s, describes 
the tumultuous events leading up to the wedding of 
Janet Van De Graff, played by senior vocal performance 
major Caity Pitts, a showgirl who is leaving a career of 
stardom for what she believes to be true love. A series 
of amusing and chaotic mishaps, including the neglect 
of Janets drowsy chaperone, reveals the drama and 
absurdity of the human experience.
However, mere plot description only tells half of the 
story. Sophomore computer science major Matthew 
Alsup carried the show impeccably with his portrayal 
of the character described simply as the Man in Chair, 
who observes the events of the show from the comfort 
of a chair in his home, isolated from the rest of the set. 
This crotchety but passionate character started off the 
show as a narrator of sorts: By starting and stopping a 
recording of the show on his record player, he was able 
to pause and resume the action onstage, as if the show 
were not a live performance but instead a recorded one.
The humorous and bitter commentary of the Man in 
Chair continued throughout, and he quickly grew to 
have a much more important role. Occasionally he 
stopped the recording to add sardonic remarks, acting 
as an omniscient voice of sorts, commenting on the 
characters and events of the musical and showcasing 
his extensive knowledge of theater. Despite his sarcasm, 
the Man in Chair had an obvious soft spot in his heart for 
this musical and he added a personal dimension to the 
events of the show, alluding to his own bitter romantic 
history as the audience watched the characters on stage.
This fascinating and surprisingly relatable character 
would not have been done justice without the 
outstanding performance of Alsup. Despite the daunting 
amount of material to memorize, Alsup hardly stuttered, 
delivering the sharp commentary of the Man in Chair 
with a comically overdramatic air.
Alsups performance was by no means the only 
outstanding one; the entire show was sprinkled with 
vibrant characters played by equally vibrant actors. 
Senior voice major Gillian Hassert excelled as the 
nonchalant, imperious Drowsy Chaperone. Meanwhile, 
other characters such as the bumbling Mrs. Tottendale 
(played by Christine de Carteret, a bachelor of 
humanities and arts student in history and architecture) 
and the self-proclaimed Latin lover Adolpho (played 
by ?rst-year voice major Joel Goodloe) brightened the 
musical with their hilarious antics.
Beyond the content of the musical, the original creators 
of the show took the opportunity to make broader 
commentary about the nature of the theater. At various 
parts of the show, they made it a point to remind the 
audience that the musical they were viewing was just 
a musical  an effect that is the exact opposite of what 
writers and producers usually try to achieve.
Mostly, this effect occurs through the role of the Man 
in Chair as a sort of barrier between the characters and 
the audience: Just as audience members started to 
empathize with the drama onstage, some unexpected 
interruption rudely drew them back to reality. At one 
point, much to the audiences confusion, the Man 
in Chair played an entire scene from a very different 
musical after accidentally selecting the wrong record 
from its sleeve. In another scene, the Man in Chairs 
house lost power just at the culminating dramatic 
moment of the musical, ruining the mood of the show.
Though at times distracting and confusing, these clever 
interruptions had an interesting effect. They drew the 
audiences attention to the mesmerizing ability of a 
theater production by repeatedly shattering its illusion of 
reality. As The Drowsy Chaperone suggests, the magic 
of a captivating show is enough to make its viewers 
believe in false characters in a false setting, yet this spell 
can be broken by something as simple as the sound of a 
telephone ring.
The Drowsy Chaperone thus engaged its audience in a 
wide range of ways, with vibrant actors and an amusing 
tale paired with challenging commentary. This musical, 
impeccably performed by members of ScotchnSoda, 
captivated viewers with a rich and multilayered 
production that proved to be much more thoughtful and 
complex than it at ?rst seemed.
Rachel Cohen | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Courtesy of Guillermo Gomez
The Man in Chair, played by sophomore computer 
science major Matthew Alsup, plays the musical for 
the audience on his record player, occasionally 
stopping the recording and freezing the action 
onstage to offer his humorous commentary.   
Drowsy Chaperone shatters fourth wall
ScotchnSoda production entertains audience with amusing yet thoughtful show
The groom (left, played by senior voice major Sean 
Pack) and his best man (first-year voice major Ethan 
Crystal) perform a jaunty musical number about 
wedding-day jitters.
Courtesy of Guillermo Gomez

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 04.23.125
Passion Pit connects with CMU audience
Indie pop band performs exciting set despite weather, is well-received by students
Not even the cold, less-than-ideal weather could keep 
students from gathering on the College of Fine Arts lawn 
to watch Passion Pit perform live. As Spring Carnival 
2012 came to an end, Carnegie Mellon students and 
non-af?liated Pittsburghers alike came together at the 
concert, sponsored by AB Concerts, which began with 
a performance by WRCTs DJ Gusto and local band 
Donora.
At 7:30 p.m., Gusto began mixing music to entertain 
the growing crowd. According to Gustos fan and friend, 
Deren Guler  a masters student in architecture who 
waved a supportive sign during his friends performance 
 the DJ uses Serato turntables, allowing him to 
scratch music playing from his computer instead of 
phonographic records.
He uses a lot of hip hop and electronic  its accessible 
stuff, but he keeps it interesting. He has really great 
?ow and rhythm. Its never choppy, Guler said. He has 
awesome Hispanic and Latin in?uences as well.
Gusto wrapped up after 30 minutes; the stage was then 
readjusted for local indie pop sensation, Donora. The 
band, headed by vocalist and guitarist Casey Hanner, 
opened with its song The Untouchables. The groups 
vibrant onstage presence was matched by colorful 
images exploding onto a projection screen.
Youre all very brave for coming out in this weather. But 
I dont blame you, because I want to see Passion Pit too, 
Hanner said to the crowd.
During the bands performance of the song Mancinis 
Dance Hall, a large in?atable penguin  which would 
later end up in the hands of Passion Pits lead vocalist 
Michael Angelakos  began to make its way through 
the crowd.
Passion Pit ?nally took the stage at around 9:20 p.m., 
welcomed by the deafening din of an anxious audience. 
The tangible excitement was reciprocated by the band. 
Angelakos almost never stood still, jumping and moving 
from one side of the stage to the other, as he worked 
his way through the set of songs. The band played the 
familiar hits that made it popular, including Better 
Things and Sleepyhead, as well as a number of songs 
from its upcoming album.
Before performing the new song Carried Away, 
Angelakos spotted an enthusiastic audience member 
towering over the crowd as he stood upright on the 
shoulders of another concert-goer.
You, Angelakos said, pointing right at the fan, have 
impeccable balance. I want to see how long you can 
keep that up. Stay right there. Im going to sing this next 
song directly to you.
Angelakos continued to build a rapport with the 
audience throughout the show, making explicit 
declarations of his positive feelings for Carnegie Mellons 
campus and students. He also asked that the audience 
promise to attend the next show Passion Pit performs in 
Pittsburgh.
Sophomore physics major Samuel Greess thought 
Passion Pit was an excellent choice for this years Spring 
Carnival concert. Much better than Big Boi, he said, 
referencing last years performer. Theyre a good band. 
Im a fan, and Ive been to their concert before.
Hannah Douglas, a ?rst-year student in the Dietrich 
College of Humanities and Social Sciences, was also 
enthusiastic about ABs choice of Passion Pit for the 
concert. Im proud of CMU. I love that the school is so 
in touch with whats popular with our generation, she 
said.
While the general sentiment among audience members 
was positive, the concert was not unanimously wellreceived. Sophomore chemical engineering major 
Ian Dolan was among the disappointed, saying of 
Passion Pits music, I think the melodies are weak, the 
harmonies are trite, and the overall feel is boring.
After an encore performance, the concert literally 
ended with a bang: The annual ?reworks display was 
the perfect ?nale to the exciting night, bringing Spring 
Carnival 2012 to a close.
Angela Vertucci | Junior Staffwriter
Patrick Gage Kelley | Senior Photographer
Despite the chilly temperatures and rain last Saturday, Passion Pit  from left to right, singer Michael Angelakos, 
drummer Nate Donmoyer, bassist Jeff Apruzzese, and keyboardist Ian Hultquist   performed to an enthusiastic 
audience by playing old favorites and songs from their upcoming album.

---------------------------------------------------

6community
pillbox 04.23.12
The Midway tent was packed last Thursday night, with 
many who couldnt get tickets lined up in the back, 
in preparation for the annual Spring Carnival comedy 
performance. This year, CollegeHumor.com comedian 
Streeter Seidell opened for headliner Nick Offerman, 
who is known for his role as Ron Swanson on the 
television show Parks and Recreation.
While both comedians are big guys with a decent 
amount of facial hair, their styles are very different. This 
contrast between the acts made for an excellent comedy 
show.
Unsurprisingly, Seidells comedy rested on college 
life and issues. From the Freshman 15  for four 
consecutive years, in his case  to the perpetual 
sickness that many college students suffer from, his 
humor appealed to the audience. His observational jokes 
were full of insight on the life of a college student.
There were times when Seidell strayed to the gross 
and vulgar side (particularly with descriptions of naked 
old people in the campus locker room), but even then 
the crowd was overcome with laughter. At times his 
formula and material seemed borrowed from articles and 
videos on CollegeHumor.com, but the crowd of college 
students enjoyed it (no doubt a reason for the websites 
popularity). Overall, his performance was consistently 
funny. He could have very well been the main performer 
if his routine had gone on longer.
After Seidell wrapped up his portion of the show, 
Offermans entrance truly riled up the crowd. Shirtless 
and wearing a Booth hardhat, he leaped on stage, 
stretching his leg against the back rails. This, along 
with him buttoning up his patriotic shirt adorned with 
stars and stripes, made for an excellent introduction into 
his act.
The performance involved lots of humorous moments 
that only Offerman could bring to Carnegie Mellon. 
His deadpan humor was present throughout the 
performance, which centered on of his Ten Tips for a 
Prosperous Life.
Offerman made a point to separate himself from the 
character of Ron Swanson while still exhibiting the kind 
of humor he is known for on Parks and Recreation. He 
discussed his personal life often, with tales of his wife 
of 12 years, actress and comedian Megan Mullaly. His 
show was interspersed by comedic songs played on 
guitar, a talent fans were most likely unaware of prior to 
his performance.
Throughout the show, Offerman built his credibility 
with the Carnegie Mellon crowd in an unexpected way: 
He demonstrated his vast knowledge of the book series 
Lord of the Rings. While initial references to hobbits 
werent incredibly nerdy, the deeper comparisons 
between David Bowie and Elrond and the mere mention 
of lembas bread showed a side of Offerman that wasnt 
expected, but was appreciated by the audience.
However, there were times when the show seemed 
to drag on. Noticeable gaps without any laughter 
populated the latter half of the show. This may have 
been a side effect of framing the show with the 
Ten Tips for a Prosperous Life. However, it clearly 
contrasted with Seidells shorter yet more consistently 
funny performance.
But where Offerman lacked comedic stamina, he made 
up for it with heart. The show felt like it wasnt merely 
a standup routine, but truly a message he was trying 
to get across to the crowd of Carnegie Mellon students. 
Behind the laughs and songs, his advice was something 
to learn from.
It may not have made for the best comedy show, but 
Offermans performance still affected the audience 
strongly. The seventh of his ten tips, Avoid the Mirror, 
was particularly powerful. He stuck on the point, If 
you have a body, youre beautiful. If you have a nose, 
youre beautiful. After repeating this sentiment a few 
times with great sincerity, a girl in the audience was 
overheard saying that she was going to cry.
The comedy show at Spring Carnival featured two 
hilarious comedians. Through his ability to relate to 
the audience, Seidell had the audience consistently 
laughing. Offerman maintained the style of humor 
he was known for without being pigeonholed as Ron 
Swanson. The contrast between the performances 
enhanced the overall experience, creating a memorable 
show that will be hard to top in years to come.
Josh Smith | Forum Editor
Nick Offerman gives life advice to students
Parks and Recreation star puts on engaging show with Ten Tips for a Prosperous Life
Nicole Hamilton | Comics Editor
Comedian Nick Offerman surprised the audience with his humorous and expertly played songs.

---------------------------------------------------

community
pillbox 04.23.127
Student group OM hosted a celebration for the Hindu 
holiday Holi last Saturday in Porter Hall and on Flagstaff 
Hill for interested students. The holiday, known as the 
Festival of Colors, is notable for how participants throw 
colored powder at each other. Most end up completely 
covered in all sorts of different bright shades. The event 
has a positive reputation on campus and draws large 
crowds every year.
Holi is a holiday that welcomes in the new season, 
celebrating the passing of winter and the arrival of 
spring through fun and festivities. While a Pittsburgh 
spring often consists of a few inches of snow and 
freezing temperatures, it was dif?cult to dampen the 
mood. The cold and wet day did nothing to deter 
students from packing the basement of Porter Hall.
OM accommodated well for the weather by hosting the 
pre-celebration preparations in Porter Hall. Participants 
received a free T-shirt for the event, printed with OMs 
tagline for this years celebration, Color Me If You Can. 
Another nice touch was the Indian buffet open to those 
celebrating the holiday.
After a few small rain delays, the main portion of the 
celebration began on Flagstaff Hill. Packets of colored 
powder were sold for $1 outside Porter Hall, with which 
participants went wild. The chaos of all of the colors 
being thrown in the air and at other participants was 
incredibly fun. Anticipating when someone may hit you 
with a handful of powder was important, especially if 
you didnt want to cough up blue for the rest of the day. 
While the event is usually attended by various groups of 
friends, the lines between friends, acquaintances, and 
strangers disappeared with the white of the T-shirts.
Overall, OMs Holi celebration on campus was a truly 
unique and fun experience. The experience of being 
covered in all sorts of colors, blending together with a 
palette of friends and strangers alike, is truly memorable, 
and is an experience all Carnegie Mellon students should 
have.
Josh Smith | Forum Editor
Holi marks colorful start to new season
Student group OM celebrates Hindu holiday with colored powder-throwing festivities
Jesse Kummer | Staffwriter
Directed by Woody Allen, this romantic 
comedy stars Owen Wilson and 
Rachel McAdams, reunited from 
their Wedding Crashers days, as an 
engaged couple vacationing in Paris. 
Through the wonders of alcohol, Wilson 
is transported back in time and starts 
to hang out with some well-known 
authors from the 1920s such as Ernest 
Hemingway and F. Scott Fitzgerald. 
This wonderfully original idea won Best 
Original Screenplay in 2011 and was 
nominated for three other Academy 
Awards. Fun Fact: This is Woody Allens 
highest grossing movie of all time.
Midnight in Paris
Thursday, April 26
8 10 12
Space Jam
Saturday, April 28
8 10 12
Michael Jordan and the Looney Tunes: 
For all of us 80s babies, this is a match 
made in heaven. Throughout the movie, 
we follow the Looney Tunes characters 
as they are forced to take on a group 
of interstellar monsters who threaten 
to take over Looney Tune-land and 
enslave all the Toons into working at a 
theme park. When the Toons challenge 
the monsters to a basketball game to 
bet on their fates, everyone looks for an 
edge, with top NBA talent being stolen 
by both sides. Danny DeVito and Billy 
West (of Futurama and Ren & Stimpy) 
provide voices for the ?lm. Fun Fact: 
The movie has made over $200 million 
worldwide.
The Artist
Friday, April 27
8 10 12
A (mostly) silent movie in this day and 
age? But lo and behold, people went 
out and saw The Artist, a romantic 
comedy set in Hollywood between 
1927 and 1932. Focusing on the 
romantic relationship between a silent 
?lm star and a rising young actress, 
the movie is a fantastic look into how 
talkies took over the movie landscape 
some 80 years ago. The movie was 
nominated for 10 Academy Awards and 
won Best Picture, Best Director, Best 
Actor, and Best Original Screenplay. 
Fun Fact: The Artist was written and 
directed by French ?lm producer Michel 
Hazanavicius, and is the most awarded 
?lm in French movie history.
Winnie the Pooh
Sunday, April 29
8 10 12
This animated musical comedy focuses 
on how Eeyore has lost his tail. Its up 
to Pooh and the gang to hold a contest 
to ?nd him a new one. The movie acts 
as a reboot of the Winnie the Pooh 
franchise and is the ?fth theatrical Pooh 
?lm ever released. Distributed by Walt 
Disney Pictures, the ?lm follows the 
standard story of Poohs insatiable 
search for honey and Christopher 
Robins need to be saved from an 
imaginary culprit. Monty Python actor 
John Cleese stars as the narrator in 
the movie. Fun Fact: Zooey Deschanel 
performs a unique rendition of the 
classic Winnie the Pooh theme song 
for the movie.
dollarmovie
McConomy Auditorium, University Center
Courtesy of Alessandra Zimmerman
Junior chemistry majors Alessandra 
Zimmerman and Dylan Mori tagged each other with 
colored powder as part of this years Holi celebration.

---------------------------------------------------

8art
pillbox 04.23.12
This year, the Anti-Gravity Derby kicked off Spring 
Carnival festivities with its anarchic alternative to 
the Buggy races. While all College of Fine Arts (CFA) 
students are encouraged to participate in the event, this 
years record number of participants was likely due to 
the involvement of CFA professor Charles Rosenblums 
Critical Histories of the Arts students, who were required 
to participate as part of their course grade.
While a large crowd slowly gathered outside of the main 
entrance of Doherty Hall at around 4 p.m. on Thursday, 
the racers began to line up their vehicles in a queue that 
ran from Doherty Hall all the way down to Frew Street 
and around the corner of Baker Hall.
As racers lined up their vehicles, the audience was 
thoroughly entertained by the humorous commentary of 
CFA professor and multimedia artist Pat Oleszko, who 
emceed and organized the derby. In promoting the event 
to students, Oleszko pitched the idea of participation 
primarily to those with big ideas, but no rush to get 
there.
The ?rst Anti-Gravity Derby was held in the spring 
of 2010 as a project of Oleszkos class on sculpture 
and performance art. The ?rst event was extremely 
successful, so the group decided to turn it into an annual 
event, adapting it to ?t into the universitys Spring 
Carnival schedule.
As a celebration of whimsy and wit, this years AntiGravity Derby focused primarily on outlandish costumes 
and extraordinary vehicles that were pushed, dragged, 
pedaled, or left to free-wheel down the hill between 
Doherty Hall and the University Center. Perfect for those 
who revel in absurdity, speed was not the main goal 
of the race. Rather, ostentation and imagination took 
precedence.
While the Annual Anti-Gravity Derby has served as a foil 
to the high-stress environment that Buggy inevitably 
creates, it makes more sense to think of the derby 
as a chaotic fashion show full of visual puns, fanciful 
costumes, and ?amboyant presentations rather than as 
a race.
The vehicles themes ranged from political satire to 
tongue-in-cheek allusions to the traditional canon of 
classical art  including references to Edgar Degas 
ballerinas, Pablo Picassos paintings of Dora Maar, the 
Bauhaus movement, and ancient Roman columns. While 
it was clear that many of the vehicles had been scrapped 
School of Art hosts annual Anti-Gravity Derby
Free-wheeling satirical derby captivates audience with hilarious and outlandish display
Above: A lively homage to Leonardo Da Vincis artillery 
tank design pits the creator against his creation.
Left: A parade of design movements struts down 
the raceway, tail-ended by an homage to De Stijl, the 
Dutch artistic movement of neoplasticism.
                  Jennifer Coloma | Operations Manager
                  Jennifer Coloma | Operations Manager

---------------------------------------------------

School of Art hosts annual Anti-Gravity Derby
Free-wheeling satirical derby captivates audience with hilarious and outlandish display
art
pillbox 04.23.129
Above: Julia Cahill and Hannah Thompson, senior Fine Arts students, parody the stereotypical 
lifestyles of those who frequent the Cricket Lounge, a strip club on Morewood Avenue.
Below: First-year tuba performance major Sam Westrick stands on a moving metaphor for the 
absurdity of contemporary censorship practices in museums.
together no more than a couple of days prior, there was 
a real level of heart and showmanship evident in every 
performance.
The excitement of the racers was matched in full by that 
of the crowd. The lively crowd rejoiced and grimaced 
at the many ups and downs of the derby. From the 
accidental spillage of copious amounts of spaghetti 
onto the race course to the dramatically planned highspeed collision between an iceberg on wheels and a 
model Titanic, the races saw their share of crashes and 
mayhem.
While smiles and laughter were abundant in the crowd, 
it was clear the participants and organizers were having 
just as much fun. Given the derbys recent growth 
in popularity, it is likely that it will become an of?cial 
Spring Carnival tradition for those looking to have some 
unstructured, free-wheeling fun.
Juan Fernandez | Staffwriter 
Paperhouse
On Emotion
Think of your favorite song. Regardless of whether it has 
lyrics or not, it probably elicits some sort of emotional 
response from you. Then again, even if a song isnt your 
favorite, it is still most likely tied to a set of emotions and 
feelings. Can music even exist apart from a connection to 
the human condition? While this may seem impossible, I 
would urge you to consider the music of Monolake as a 
possible contender for completely soulless music.
Robert Henke, the man behind Monolake, has boldly 
produced music that severs itself from any emotional 
connection. This year, Henke released the album Ghosts, a 
sonically dense album that utilizes numerous simultaneous 
polyrhythmic melodies within a single track. The album 
features vocal samples of computer voices and, according 
to Henke, is based on a series of short stories he wrote; 
however, unlike most of his other work as Monolake, no 
sort of emotional connection is created. Ghosts recalls the 
sounds of IDM, garage, minimal techno, and dubstep, but 
these sounds are manifested as skeletal ghosts that bar 
themselves from human touch.
The idea of soulless and emotionless music may be 
alarming to some, but it is truly a remarkable achievement. 
I have never heard an album so meticulously crafted and 
mastered. The fact that each sound makes a statement 
solely based on its compositional strength and relationship 
to form, rather than its perceived emotional connection 
to the listener, forces the listener to pay attention to 
the physical effect each sound has on the body. When 
performing live, Monolake treats its audience to a multichannel surround-sound experience complete with a 
spellbinding visual accompaniment. While witnessing this 
spectacle, listeners feel no thoughts of anger, darkness, 
love, happiness, or any other sort of emotion; rather, they 
are completely entranced by the physical effect the sound 
has on the body.
Alex Price | Special to The Tartan
top 10 on WRCT 88.3 FM
most played albums of the last week
Andrew Bird  Break It Yourself
Battles  Dross Glop
Bonobo Black Sands Remixed
El Rego  s/t
Q Morrow  All Around Dude
High On Fire  De Vermis Mysteriis
Guided By Voices  Lets Go Eat the Factory
Ernesto Cervini Quartet  There
Trust  TRST
The Dead Milkmen  The King in Yellow
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
                  Jennifer Coloma | Operations Manager
                  Jennifer Coloma | Operations Manager

---------------------------------------------------

10carnival
pillbox 04.23.12
Clockwise from top left: David Ortiz-Grob building for Alpha Epsilon Pi. Bryan Spencer 
building for Sigma Epsilon. Ko Miyatake climbing between two booths in order to build. A 
few people inspecting a drill. Sankalp Bhatnagar lifting a frame for Kappa Sigma. A view of 
Midway construction through a booth frame. Carnival Committee discussing tasks. 
                Courtesy of Guillermo Gomez
                  Jonathan Carreon | Photo Editor
                Courtesy of Guillermo Gomez                Courtesy of Guillermo Gomez                Courtesy of Guillermo Gomez
                Courtesy of Guillermo Gomez                  Jonathan Carreon | Photo Editor

---------------------------------------------------

carnival
pillbox 04.23.1211
                Courtesy of Guillermo Gomez
                Courtesy of Guillermo Gomez
                Courtesy of Guillermo Gomez                Courtesy of Guillermo Gomez
                  Jennifer Coloma | Operations Manager
Clockwise from top left: A student painted as 
a ballerina participates in the Anti-Gravity Derby. 
Members of SPIRIT posing with one of their 
repainted buggies. Students get pumped for the 
Passion Pit concert. Sean Chin poses with Sigma 
Phi Epsilons first place booth trophy. The Bagpipes 
and Drums band marches through Midway. One of 
the Booth Chairs speaks at the Midway Opening 
Ceremony.
                  Jonathan Carreon | Photo Editor

---------------------------------------------------

carnival
pillbox 04.23.121312carnival
pillbox 04.23.12
                  Jennifer Coloma | Operations Manager

---------------------------------------------------

14carnival
pillbox 04.23.12
Clockwise from the top: A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving 
dinner with Snoopy as the chef. The caterpillar from 
Alice in Wonderland poses for the crowd. Kappa Alpha 
Theta sisters hold their first place Booth trophy up in 
front of their booth. A papier-mch lion, Napoleon, 
roars inside Alpha Chi Omegas circus booth.
                  Jonathan Carreon | Photo Editor
                  Jonathan Carreon | Photo Editor
                  Jonathan Carreon | Photo Editor                Courtesy of Guillermo Gomez

---------------------------------------------------

carnival
pillbox 04.23.1215
                  Jennifer Coloma | Operations Manager
                  Jennifer Coloma | Operations Manager                  Jennifer Coloma | Operations Manager
                  Jonathan Carreon | Photo Editor
                Courtesy of Guillermo Gomez
Clockwise from the top left: SAE and CIA race to the  
finish. CIA displays its new buggy, Orca, alongside older  
buggies. Fringe also displays its new buggy, Bissa, at the 
design competition. SDC displays its buggies in a rainbow. 
A mechanic from CIA gets inside one of the groups older 
buggies.

---------------------------------------------------

16booth
pillbox 04.23.12
The theme of this years Spring Carnival, As Seen On 
TV, allowed for a number of creative individual booth 
themes, but also provided some challenges for certain 
organizations. Instead of basing booths on cheesy 
infomercials, as the theme might suggest, most groups 
chose television shows for their booth themes.
Patrick White, senior mechanical engineering major and 
Midway chair, organized the judging and helped pick 
the theme. It ended up between At the Theater and 
As Seen On TV,  he said. And then As Seen On TV 
won the ?nal vote.
With its Indiana Jones-themed booth, Kappa Alpha 
Theta came away with ?rst place in the Sorority 
category. The sororitys booth was highly detailed and, 
despite certain touches being ruined by the rain, it 
created an all-encompassing environment for visitors to 
explore and enjoy. Visitors were taken on tours in small 
groups, led by members of Kappa Alpha Theta. This 
tour-style presentation made the booth seem more like 
an experience than other booths, where visitors just 
walked through and looked around on their own.
The Asian Student Association won ?rst place in the 
Independent Organizations category this year. Its booth 
was based on Looney Tunes and featured a number of 
creative touches. While the Asian Student Associations 
theme wasnt terribly novel, its booth was wellconstructed and deserved the win.
Featuring an impressive faade that mirrored the 
exterior of Squidwards Easter Island statue-shaped 
house, Spongebobs pineapple-shaped house, and 
the Krusty Krab, Sigma Phi Epsilons Spongebob 
Squarepants-themed booth won ?rst place in the 
Fraternity category. With such an amazing exterior, the 
fraternitys booth grabbed visitors attention before they 
even entered. The inside of the booth featured different 
rooms from the cartoon show and included details like 
glowing jelly ?sh. With its attention to accuracy and 
detail, Sigma Phi Epsilon created a memorable booth 
that stood out from the others.
In the Blitz category, Lambda Phi Epsilon won ?rst 
place for its World Cup-themed booth, which featured 
a miniature ?eld where visitors could play soccer. 
Upon ?rst glance, it didnt even look like a booth, but it 
actually provided a nice space for some of the younger 
visitors to play and run around.
Second place in the Sorority category went to Delta 
Gamma for its Shark Week-themed booth and Delta 
Tau Delta for its Lunar Landings booth in the Fraternity 
category. Delta Gammas booth, which featured several 
fake large sharks, sand on the bottom ?oor, and a 
laser-cut ships wheel, was one of the more impressive 
and enjoyable booths to walk through, and it was 
clear that the sorority members had spent a lot of time 
constructing it.
Third place in the Sorority category went to Alpha Chi 
Omega for its traveling circus-themed booth. While the 
booth did not really ?t the overall theme of As Seen On 
TV, it was nicely decorated and felt very sturdy. Alpha 
Epsilon Pis Pinky and the Brain booth won third place in 
the Fraternity category.
Not all booths were so enjoyable, however, as some felt 
like they were thrown together at the last minute.
Fringes Planet Earth-themed booth was 
underwhelming, despite its theme being one of the best. 
BioSACs MythBusters booth featured interesting facts, 
but it was not very exciting to walk through.
This years theme of As Seen On TV opened up 
an opportunity for creative booths, and while some 
organizations did a great job with the theme, others 
chose themes that did not quite ?t. Theres a lot of 
room for interpretation, so its always interesting to see 
what people can come up with, White said. I think a 
lot of them you could actually link back [to the theme] 
pretty easily.
Weve been trying to make the booths a lot safer and 
stronger and I think weve done a lot of good stuff 
with it, White said. The increased safety standards 
imposed this year and the inclement weather provided 
an interesting challenge for many booths, but ultimately 
did not hinder the out?ow of creativity on Midway.
Allison Cosby | Pillbox Editor
Booths widely interpret As Seen On TV theme
Student organizations present a variety of booth themes on Midway this year
Left: Sigma Phi Epsilons Spongebob-themed booth 
drew attention from visitors by its impressive exterior.
Above: Alpha Chi Omegas traveling circus booth won 
third place in the Sorority category.
Kate Groschner | Junior Photographer
Kate Groschner | Junior Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

booth
pillbox 04.23.1217
Kate Groschner | Junior Photographer
Kate Groschner | Junior Photographer
Kate Groschner | Junior Photographer
Kate Groschner | Junior Photographer
Clockwise from top left: The Asian Student Associations Looney Tunes booth won first place in the 
Independent Organizations category. Delta Gammas Shark Week-themed booth featured numerous 
carefully executed details like a laser-cut ships wheel. The Taiwanese Student Associations booth was 
based on Alice in Wonderland. First-year dorm Mudge House built the Bill Nye the Science Guy booth.

---------------------------------------------------

18music
pillbox 04.23.12
Seamlessly switching between extended jam 
sessions and familiar material, Brooklyn-based 
psychedelic folk band Woods played an excellent 
show at Gar?eld Artworks last Saturday. The 
bands performance was preceded by shorter sets 
by MMOSS, another psychedelic band from New 
Hampshire, and Unicycle Loves You, a Chicagobased noise pop band.
MMOSS, in particular, was a perfect opener for 
Woods. With its droney guitars set off by an earthy 
?ute, MMOSS set the tone for the rest of the 
concert. MMOSS just ?nished recording its newest 
album and released the ?rst single, Spoiled Sun, 
from the album in early April. Many of the audience 
members seemed unfamiliar with the bands music, 
but the sound was similar to that of Woods, and the 
set was enjoyable.
After a short break, Woods took the stage. The band 
is comprised of singer-guitarist Jeremy Earl, tapeeffects technician G. Lucas Crane, bassist Kevin 
Morby, and multi-instrumentalist Jaris Taveniere.
The group played songs from nearly all of its ?ve 
studio albums, including fan favorites like Time 
Fading Lines from 2010s At Echo Lake, Rain On 
from 2009s Songs of Shame, and Pushing Onlys 
from 2011s Sun and Shade. Perhaps the best part 
of the concert was Woods continuous transition 
between actual songs and seemingly impromptu 
jam sessions. After 15 minutes of hazy guitar loops 
and repetitive percussive beats, Earl would break 
the trance with his almost whiny vocals, entering 
the next song.
The subtle vocal harmonies present on Woods 
recorded albums were hardly noticeable in the 
bands live performance, likely a result of the decentat-best PA system at Gar?eld Artworks. Despite the 
sound system, Gar?eld Artworks was the perfect 
venue for this concert, creating an intimate and 
welcoming atmosphere. The small venue was fairly 
crowded, with enthusiastic fans standing on the 
chairs lining the walls and gathering close around 
the small stage.
Overall, Woods put on a strikingly sincere 
performance, with Earls vocals easily ?oating 
over the rest of the groups layered guitars and 
percussion. The musical talent of the group was 
evident in their live set, always keeping track of 
each others movements and the audiences vibes.
Earl also runs Woodsist, a Brooklyn-based lo-? record 
label that releases all of Woods albums in addition 
to those of other psych-folk bands like Ganglians, 
Sun Araw, Psychedelic Horseshit, Raccoo-oo-oon, 
and The Fresh & Onlys. Woodsist also hosts a twoday music festival every summer in Big Sur, Calif., 
that features the labels bands.
Allison Cosby | Pillbox Editor
Woods plays intimate set
Gar?eld Artworks hosts alternative to Carnival concert
Woods lead singer and guitarist Jeremy Earl played at Bush Hall in London last month.
Courtesy of Nicholas Lativy via Flickr
Catherine Spence | Staffwriter
Did you know?
100years ago
April 18, 1912
The Tartan runs a clip from the 
Cleveland Plain Dealer, a newspaper 
in Ohio, that features a conversation 
between a male and female dean 
about the calendar for the upcoming 
year. The female dean insists on 
adding, Very few of our coeds remain 
unmarried! to attract more students.
50years ago
April 18, 1952
Room draw is upon the students for 
the 6263 school year and Morewood 
Gardens boasts new additions. The 
added wings of Morewood will be 
ready to be occupied in the fall, so girls 
can request those rooms during room 
selection. The first floor is reserved for 
married couples.
25years ago
April 21, 1987
Carnegie Mellon is chosen, along 
with nine other colleges, to be part 
of a national search for MTVs next 
video jockey. Auditions will be held 
on campus and are limited to 125 
students. Twenty-five of those students 
will be sent on to the next round.
10years ago
April 29, 2002
A Forum article lambasts the use and 
abuse of live goldfish by two groups 
during Spring Carnival. One group 
operated a game involving catching 
fish in rice paper. The other group of 
fish was subject to cannibalism and 
murky water conditions. 
5years ago
April 23, 2007
A well-written critique of all the Spring 
Carnival bands leaves much to be 
desired from the headlining artists. 
The author gives a number of reasons 
why he wasnt particularly impressed 
with the Spring Carnival lineup, but 
managed to thoroughly enjoy the jazz 
band.
1year ago
April 18, 2011
Bad weather plagued the buggy heats, 
and a crash left only one team able 
to finish the ninth heat. Finals had to 
be cancelled, and an ambulance was 
called after the buggy crash between 
the Sigma Nu and Alpha Epsilon Pi 
fraternities.

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 04.23.1219
Apartment 4H by Joe Medwid and Dave Rhodenbaughjmedwid@andrew
Online at www.4hcomic.com 
Hark, a Vagrant by Kate Beaton
kathrynmoira@gmail.com
Alarm by Reza Farazmand
poorlydrawnlines@gmail.com

---------------------------------------------------

20comics
pillbox 04.23.12
sohmer@leasticoulddo.com
Online at www.licd.com and www.lfgcomics.com
Ghost of Video Games Past by Doghouse Diaries
doghousediaries@gmail.com

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 04.23.1221
Solutions from April 16, 2012
CrosswordHard DifficultyEasy Difficulty
Killer Sudoku Puzzle: Very Hard Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Medium Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/
sudokugen/Killer Sudoku courtesy of www.krazydad.com/killersudoku
Aside from normal sudoku rules, the dotted lines indicate 
areas which also contain a non-repeating set of digits. 
These squares can be added together to produce the sums 
shown in the clues.

---------------------------------------------------

22Hungover-oscopes
pillbox 04.23.12
1. Singer Vikki
2. Thats ____!
3. Atomizer output
4. Republic in S Asia
5. Cautious
6. Anecdotal knowledge
7. Exodus hero
8. ___ boy!
9. Island in the East China Sea
10. Breastbones
11. Language of Pakistan
12. Monetary unit of Cambodia
13. Competent
21. Encouraging word
23. As You Like It forest
26. Be silent, musically
27. Bolt to bond
28. Perrier rival
29. Makes well
30. Affectation of sophisticates
31. Words on a Wonderland cake
33. German submarine
34. People and places, e.g.
35. Delicious
37. Letters on a Cardinals cap
38. ___ kwon do
41. Fathered
42. Bursting forth
47. Person in the petroleum industry
49. Beetle juice?
51. Picture puzzle
52. Approvals
53. Exchange
54. Long luxuriant hair
55. Writer Sarah ____ Jewett
56. Hindu princess
57. Go out with
58. Bean sprout?
59. Approach
60. Shout
63. Mouthpiece of a bridle
1. Group of tents
5. Assert as a fact
10. Chapter of the Koran
14. Et ____
15. Artery that feeds the trunk
16. Chicago paper, for short
17. Hazard
18. Grain to be ground
19. Pulitzer-winning biographer 
Leon
20. Unemployed person?
22. By and large
24. Express
25. Coffee container
26. Molars, e.g.
29. Tee follower
32. Intimidate
36. Edisons middle name
37. House in D.C.
39. Anaconda
40. At the same time
43. Clean air org.
44. Light up
45. Carry on
46. Domingo, for one
48. Sprechen ___ Deutsch?
49. Bold
50. Comparative suffix
52. Mouth, slangily
53. Burn without flame
57. Fate
61. Of moderate temperature
62. Rum cakes
64. Nice notion
65. Ballerina Pavlova
66. Bring together
67. Meat dish
68. Hammer end
69. Locations
70. British nobleman
ACROSSDOWN
Hungover-oscopes
aries
march 21april 19
You left it on the Mall during the Passion Pit concert when 
you went to reach for your soda.
taurus
april 20may 20
You lost everything on the dance floor. Check the University 
Center Information Desk.
gemini
may 21june 21
What you are missing is next to your lighter. You know, the 
one you had to run out and buy (even though you dont 
smoke) so you could fit in during Spring Carnival.
cancer
june 22july 22
Call the liquor store. The cashier will definitely remember 
you.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
You thought that Facebooks timeline was stupid, but with 
the state you were in during Spring Carnival, it is now your 
best friend. Check your timeline to find your stuff.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
What you seek is in Wean Hall because you never left 
during Spring Carnival.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Yeah, youre not getting back what you lost.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
What you lost can be found by retracing your steps back to 
Hamerschlag Hall.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Check inside your teams buggy.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
Check under the bed. No, not your bed.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
You left it with the hula hoopers.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
Check your mailbox. Who knows how it got in there, but 
you should go get it soon.
Nicole Hamilton | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

23
MONDAY4.23.12
Deer Tick. Rex Theater. 9 p.m.
The Providence, R.I.-based folk rock band Deer Tick will 
perform with garage rock band Turbo Fruits.
TUESDAY4.24.12
Shary Boyle lecture. Kresge Theatre. 5 p.m.
Sponsored by the School of Art Lecture Series, Torontobased visual artist Shary Boyle will give a lecture on 
her work. Boyles artwork focuses on personal and 
psychologically moving content that explores anxiety, 
desire, and fantasy from a dark feminist perspective.
WEDNESDAY4.25.12
Keep Shelly in Athens. The Underground. 7 p.m.
Sponsored by AB Underground, local electronic group 
RIVKA will open for the Grecian down-tempo electronica 
duo Keep Shelly in Athens.
THURSDAY4.26.12
Triggers. The Underground. 7 p.m.
Local indie rock group Triggers will perform at The 
Underground. The concert is sponsored by AB 
Underground.
FRIDAY4.27.12
Because Im Drawn That Way! with Ed Piskor. 
Adamson Wing, Baker Hall 136A. 4:30 p.m.
Cartoonist Ed Piskor will give a lecture on comics, art, 
and his experiences in the comics industry. Piskor is 
known for his comic Wizzywig, about the history of 
computer hackers, and his current project Hip Hop Family 
Tree, which details key relationships in the history of hip 
hop music. The lecture is sponsored by Carnegie Mellons 
creative writing program.
Bo Burnham. Carnegie Library Music Hall of Homestead 
(510 East 10th Ave., Munhall, Pa.). 8 p.m.
Comedian and internet celebrity Bo Burnham will perform 
at the Carnegie Library Music Hall of Homestead. 
Burnham is known for the comical and satirical songs that 
he posts on YouTube.
Off the Wall: JacobTV. Byham Theater. 9 p.m.
Dutch composer Jacob Ter Veldhuis (JacobTV) will 
perform a unique mix of rock, pop, jazz, and classical 
music. He will premiere his new reality opera, THE 
NEWS. The show is co-presented with the Pittsburgh 
Cultural Trust as part of the Distinctively Dutch Festival.
The Deep Blue Sea. Regent Square Theater. TBA.
Based on Terence Rattigans stage drama, the movie 
focuses on the unreliable nature of love, as the wife of a 
high court judge falls hopelessly in love with a young pilot. 
Actress Rachel Weisz stars in this British ?lm set in 1950s 
London.
SATURDAY4.28.12
PVC Vinyl Con. Pittsburgh Filmmakers (477 Melwood 
Ave.). Noon8 p.m.
PVC presents its second Vinyl Con. The event will feature 
out-of-town vinyl dealers, a live performance by American 
funk and soul vocalist Spanky Wilson, and refreshments 
courtesy of Iron City Brewing Co. The event is for all ages 
and admission is $3.
Pyrotopia. Pump House at The Waterfront (880 
Waterfront Dr. East). NoonMidnight.
Pittsburghs ?rst festival of ?re and electrical arts will 
feature ?re spinners, dancers, and hoopers. There will be 
demonstrations of ?re-related arts, including glassblowing 
and metal casting, and music from local DJ Zombo. The 
festival is free and open to the public.
Art All Night. Willow Street Development (4001 Willow 
St.). 4 p.m.
Returning for its 15th year, Art All Night promotes 
community development through artistic expression. 
The event is organized by members of the Lawrenceville 
community and is free and open to the public. The event 
will run until 2 p.m. on Sunday.
Laura Stevenson and The Cans. The Underground. 
7 p.m.
Brooklyn-based indie rock group Laura Stevenson and 
The Cans will perform at The Underground. The group 
uses strings, accordions, and brass to create a unique 
sound. The concert is sponsored by AB Underground.
Sharon Van Etten. Carnegie Lecture Hall. 8 p.m.
Brooklyn-based singer-songwriter Sharon Van Etten will 
perform at the Carnegie Lecture Hall in Oakland. The 
concert is co-presented by The Andy Warhol Museum 
and WYEP 91.3.
ONGOING
Duncan Campbell. Carnegie Museum of Art. Through 
June 8.
The 68th installment of the museums Forum series will 
showcase a collection of ?lmic portraits by Irish artist 
Duncan Campbell.
Native Pennsylvania, A Wild?ower Walk. Fifth ?oor, 
Hunt Library. Through June 29.
This collaborative exhibition between the Hunt Institute 
and the Carnegie Museum of Natural Historys botany 
department celebrates Pennsylvanias natural world, 
featuring collections of plants and watercolors.
Gestures: Intimate Friction. The Mattress Factory. 
Through Nov. 30.
Carnegie Mellon adjunct associate professor of 
architecture Mary-Lou Arscott guest-curates this 
collaborative exhibit featuring installations by artists, 
architects, and activists. The exhibit is displayed at the 
museums location at 1414 Monterey St.
UPCOMING
Impressionism in a New Light: From Monet to 
Stieglitz. Carnegie Museum of Art. May 12Aug. 26.
The exhibit will feature more than 150 works from 
impressionist artists from the late 19th and early 20th 
centuries, including Mary Cassatt, Edgar Degas, Vincent 
Van Gogh, Claude Monet, and Pierre-Auguste Renoir. 
The exhibit is organized by associate curator of ?ne arts 
Amanda Zehnder and curator of photography Linda 
Benedict-Jones.
Compiled by Allison Cosby | Pillbox Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.
Classifieds
$$ FOR YOUR STUFF. Moving, graduating? 
Consign your gently used furniture, home 
decor, bikes,a/cs, dorm fridges, etc. with 
Consign and Design Pittsburgh. We sell it 
& you get paid. Pick-up available. www.
consignanddesignpgh.com. Text/call 412-513-
7862.
calendar
pillbox 04.23.12

---------------------------------------------------

24gallery
pillbox 04.23.12
Jonathan Carreon | Photo Editor
Participants in Tear-Down took apart their booths on Midway this past Sunday morning, marking an of?cial 
end to this years Spring Carnival. Above, members of the Asian Students Association take down the 
stairs to their Looney Toons booth. Below, Delta Delta Delta members disassemble their The Amazing 
Race booth. All organizations must take down their booths by 5 p.m., or they pay a ?ne for every extra 
minute spent on Midway.
tear-down.
