PILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
SCITECH
Time?ies exictes at fall concert  B5
FORUM
To save the environment, save the pandas  A6Researcher correlates class status and colds  A4
thetartan.org
@thetartan
November 11, 2013
Volume 108, Issue 11
Ian Glasner steps into role as SBVP
NOL UM 
News Co-Editor
Spurred by a desire to 
make Carnegie Mellon life 
more enjoyable, junior electrical and computer engineering major Ian Glasner 
has ?lled the role of student 
body vice president after 
former vice president and junior philosophy major Peter 
Masters resigned from the 
position.
Glasner was nominated to 
student body vice president 
by Student Body President 
Lindsay MacGillivray two 
weeks ago, and his nomination was approved by Student 
Senate last Thursday. MacGillivray presented Glasner 
as her nominee to Senate and 
faced no objections.
MacGillivray and Glasner 
already have a history of positive collaboration: Glasner 
previously served on MacGillivrays advisory cabinet 
as residential life adviser. He 
currently serves as the community advisor for the Residence on Fifth. He is also on 
the executive committee of 
Sigma Alpha Epsilons Pennsylvania Phi chapter and is a 
founder of CMU in Haiti, an 
organization that travels to 
and supports Haiti.
Although already engaged with various campus 
organizations, Glasner looks 
forward to the new responsibilities associated with his 
position as student body vice 
president.
I think I can make a difference here and effect positive change on campus. Its 
all about representing the 
student body and helping 
make campus a better place 
and making students more 
happy and successful. I want 
to make this campus more 
fun, he said.
According to the student 
government website, the student body vice president assists the student body president in all areas of the job and 
is either elected alongside 
I think I 
can make a 
difference 
here and effect 
positive change 
on campus.
Ian Glasner
Student Body Vice 
President
See SBVP, A3
Suresh praises power of interdisciplinary collaboration
JACQUELINE JAMES
Junior Staffwriter
Newly instated Carnegie Mellon President Subra 
Suresh gave his inaugural lecture last Thursday.
After an introduction by 
James Garrett, dean of the 
College of Engineering and 
Thomas Lord professor of civil 
and environmental engineering, Suresh was greeted with 
applause from the audience 
in the standing-room-only 
Rashid Auditorium. 
It is rare I get to be in the 
position of the professor, so 
lets get to it, Suresh said.
Sureshs passion and the 
bulk of his research involve 
studying red blood cells and 
their behavior when confronted with malaria, sickle cell 
anemia, and leukemia. 
Suresh greatly emphasized 
how transformative and disruptive developments in different ?elds  along with his 
co-workers and students  
made his work possible.
Suresh focused mostly on 
the devastating affect malaria 
has on the simple human red 
blood cell. 
Red blood cells must stretch 
and squeeze to ?t through the 
extremely thin vessels in our 
brains, This ability is vital for 
bringing oxygen to all parts of 
the brain. When they are infected, red blood cells quickly 
lose this ?exibility as their 
outer shell hardens. These infected cells go on to cause major vessel blockages.
Suresh highlighted the importance of interdisciplinary 
approaches to such confounding problems. 
Suresh himself has background in materials science, 
engineering, and medicine. 
He paused several times 
throughout the lecture to 
make the point that though 
a physics expert might not be 
able to solve a problem pertaining to his or her ?eld, an 
engineer could. 
Suresh hopes that his work 
with blood diseases might 
eventually lead to some form 
of cure for malaria and sickle 
cell anemia, for a start. Despite cautioning that he is far 
from any true solution, he remains optimistic. 
With each small step we 
come closer to solving the 
problem, he said, and looked 
to students for help. If any 
CMU students could solve this, 
youd be very famous!
I found the lecture educational, de?nitely, said alumna 
and Carnegie Mellon technology support and assessment analyst Shruti Valjee, 
and also very inspirational. I 
think its a great way for him 
to start off as CMU president, 
not just as a president, but a 
researcher too.
Iris Yang, a biomedical engineering masters student, 
added, I connected with his 
research and found it very interesting.
At the end of his lecture, 
which lasted over an hour, 
Suresh stayed to answer some 
questions. The lecture was the 
?rst of what Suresh hopes will 
be many.
As the ninth president of 
Carnegie Mellon, Suresh has 
gathered many academic 
lauds throughout his career, 
one being his recent election 
to the Institute of Medicine. 
In addition, Suresh has held a 
position on the National Academy of Sciences since 2012 
and has been a member of the 
National Academy of Engineering since 2002. 
Suresh is one of only 16 
Americans to have the honor 
of holding a place in all three 
societies. Suresh will be inaugurated this Friday. 
Courtesy of Tim Kaulen
President Suresh delivered his ?rst inaugural lecture last Thursday.
Nagin wins Stockholm criminology prize
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Co-Editor
Daniel Nagin, the Teresa 
and H. John Heinz III university professor of public policy 
and statistics, described the 
research that won him the 
2014 Stockholm Prize for 
Criminology.
Ive been doing work 
which calls into question a 
lot of sentencing policy  the 
way we use imprisonment  
in the United States, Nagin 
said.
The Stockholm Prize, 
awarded by the Swedish Ministry of Justice with contributions from the Torsten Sderberg Foundation, is awarded 
annually for outstanding 
achievements in criminological research or for the application of research results by 
practitioners for the reduction 
of crime and the advancement 
of human rights, according to 
a university press release.
Nagin won the prize for his 
research on deterrence, the 
idea that the threat of punishment will prevent people from 
breaking the law.
According to Nagin, the research for which he received 
the award speci?cally has to 
do with the impact of sending 
people to prison on their subsequent offenses.
Nagin made the distinction 
between speci?c and general 
deterrence. Speci?c deterrence focuses on an individual 
criminal, discouraging future 
criminal activities by punishing him or her, while general 
deterrence focuses on crime 
prevention on a larger scale by 
making examples of speci?c 
criminals.
An example of general deterrence, Nagin says, is when 
the threat of knowing that 
there might be cops around 
the corner deters you from 
speeding.
Nagin studies how the 
experience of punishment 
affects recidivism, when 
criminals lapse back into their 
law-breaking ways after being 
punished. Nagin found that 
speci?c deterrence does not 
have the preventative effect 
people thought, but rather 
that either the experience of 
punishment was perhaps exacerbating recidivism or having no effect  none of it was 
showing that it had that kind 
of chastening effect.
Nagin, who is originally 
from Pittsburgh, came to 
Carnegie Mellon for his undergraduate education in the 
early 1970s. After receiving a 
degree from what is now the 
Tepper School of Business, he 
came back to Carnegie Mellon 
for a masters degree, also in 
business.
Nagin continued his education at Carnegie Mellon with a 
Ph.D. from what is now Heinz 
College. He credits his interest 
in research to his time as an 
undergraduate. Nagin, hired 
as an undergraduate research 
assistant, had the chance to 
Im more optimistic, in the 
future, that the political climate 
will be such that policymakers 
will actually pay attention to this 
research.
Daniel Nagin
Professor of public policy and statistics
See NAGIN, A3
Read The Tartans   interview with former Carnegie Mellon student James Wolpert on B8  
Check out our calendar of President Sureshs inaugural events on A3!
Courtesy of James Wolpert
Wolpert sings his way to the top

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  November 11, 2013
Corrections & Clari?cations
The article Center receives $4.6 million to improve 
transit app in the Nov. 3 issues of The Tartan previously stated that the Port Authority tested their 
GPS system as part of the RERC on Accessible Public 
Transportation. A correction has been made to clarify 
that while the Port Authority did recently improve their 
GPS system, the RERC is not involved in the process or 
deployment of the new tracking system; it simply plans 
to use their data.
NEWS IN BRIEFAnnual Bene?ts and Fitness Fair
WEATHER
Underage Drinking
November 2, 2013
University Police cited a 
University of Pittsburgh student for underage drinking at 
the corner of Forbes Avenue 
and Beeler Street. A security 
guard noticed the intoxicated 
student and requested assistance. The male was transported to a hospital for further 
treatment after CMU EMS 
deemed transport necessary.
A University of Pittsburgh 
student was cited for underage drinking after she was 
found intoxicated and sleeping on top of the laundry table 
inside the Margaret Morrison 
Apartment laundry room. 
University Police and EMS 
were summoned to assist after 
a concerned individual found 
the female. The female was 
transported to a hospital for 
further treatment.
Bicycle Theft 
November 2, 2013
A Carnegie Mellon student 
reported his bicycle stolen 
from the bike walk near the 
Purnell Center. The victim 
stated that he secured his 
Hunter brand bicycle outside 
of Purnell on Oct. 30, 2013 at 
noon. The victim stated that 
he returned to ?nd the bike 
missing at 9:30 p.m. on Nov. 
2. The victim stated that the 
cable lock, which was securing the bicycle, was also stolen.
Alcohol Amnesty
November 3, 2013
University Police and EMS 
were summoned to Mudge 
House and Scobell House in 
reference to two incidents 
with intoxicated students. 
Both students were transported to the hospital for 
further treatment. Both incidents met criteria for Alcohol Amnesty to be applied.
Hit and Run
November 3, 2013
A Carnegie Mellon student 
reported that his vehicle was 
struck in the parking lot behind 1091 Morewood Avenue 
in the Greek Quad. Police and 
the victim were unable to determine who struck the victims vehicle.
Laptop Theft 
November 6, 2013
University Police were 
summoned to Doherty Hall 
in reference to a theft report. 
The victim stated that they 
left their laptop unattended in 
a Doherty Hall 1200 corridor 
classroom from 1:30 p.m. until 10:30 p.m., when they realized the laptop was missing. 
This investigation is ongoing.
De?ant Trespass Citation
November 8, 2013
University Police responded to a call for a suspicious 
male harassing two Carnegie 
Mellon students. Police identi?ed the man and con?rmed 
that he was not af?liated with 
Carnegie Mellon and was previously trespassing in campus 
residence halls. The man was 
cited for de?ant trespass and 
released from the scene.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Carnegie Mellon held its annual Bene?ts and Fitness Fair last Wednesday in the University Centers Rangos Hall. At the fair, over 75 different health 
and ?tness vendors answered questions, gave ?tness advice, and distributed free samples of their respective products. 
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
Committee Update: Campus LifeEx-Of?cio Report: Lieutenant Joseph Meyers
STUDENT SENATE MEETING MINUTES
FRIDAY
High / Low
49 / 33
SATURDAY
High / Low
51 / 39
SUNDAY
High / Low
60 / 47
TUESDAY
High / Low
35 / 26
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
36 / 26
THURSDAY
High / Low
45 / 32
Campus Life will be 
hosting a gallery crawl on 
Nov. 23 from 11 a.m.5 p.m., 
with buses leaving periodically from the UC Turnaround. 
The buses will take students 
to venues around Pittsburgh, 
including the Mattress Factory, the Andy Warhol Museum, 
and the National Aviary.
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Lieutenant Joseph Meyers 
of University Police gave a presentation on Carnegie Mellons 
shuttle system. Meyers said 
that this semester there has 
been a marked increase in the 
number of complaints University Police received about the 
shuttle system, which includes 
the escort shuttles as well as 
the ?xed-route shuttles. Meyers 
asked Senate for suggestions on 
how to improve awareness and 
ease of use for the system; he 
focused on the usability of the 
shuttle systems website, which 
can be found at www.cmu.edu/
police/shuttleandescort.
Student Body Vice President Appointment
Student Body President 
and senior biology and psychology major Lindsay MacGillivray announced the appointment of junior electrical 
and computer engineering 
major Ian Glasner to the position of student body vice 
president. Glasner replaces 
junior international relations 
and politics and philosophy 
double major Peter Masters, 
who resigned from the position two weeks ago. Glasner 
of?cially became student body 
vice president at Thursdays 
Senate meeting after no Senators objected to his appointment.
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor
Special Allocation: Game Creation Society
Senate voted to allocate 
$1,392.42 for the Game Creation Society in order to cover 
server costs charged by the 
School of Computer Science. 
Although the Game Creation 
Society has been paying the 
monthly fee of $22 for several 
years and has received Joint 
Funding Committee funding 
for it, an administrative error 
kept the organization from 
ever receiving the money.
Carnegie Mellon is proud 
to announce that Pratibha 
Anjali Dohare is the recipient 
of a $40,000 cybersecurity 
scholarship from the International Information Systems Security Certi?cation 
Consortium (ISC) Foundation.
The scholarship will help 
Dohare with her studies in 
the masters of science in information technology-information security at Carnegie 
Mellons Information Networking Institute.
I intend to utilize this 
scholarship in enhancing 
my knowledge in the ?eld of 
cybersecurity and forensics 
during my studies at CMUs 
INI, with an aim to merge the 
processes of prevention and 
investigation through development of an intrusion prevention and detection system. Cybersecurity is more 
than one individual step  it 
is a process built upon a cycle of key attributes: learning, monitoring, analyzing, 
deciding, and responding 
 before the whole cycle of 
learning begins again, said 
Dohare in the press release.
Cybersecurity attacks are 
becoming more frequent 
with the increasing usage of 
computer systems for both 
economic and social means. 
As young adults become 
more experienced with social media, experts believe 
many are participating in 
unsafe practices on the Web.
To be eligible for the 
scholarship, applicants must 
be at least undergraduate 
sophomores by August of the 
calendar year, when scholarships are awarded.
Students must also be 
academically eligible to continue at their educational 
institutions while pursuing 
their degrees.
Computer scientists at 
Carnegie Mellon have created a password system that 
will use inkblots to provide 
extra protection when passwords are stolen from websites.
The Generating panOptic Turing Tests to Tell Computers and Humans Apart 
(GOTCHA) password system 
would be able to further protect important accounts.
A user ?rst chooses a password, and a computer creates 
numerous multicolored inkblots. The user would then 
describe each inkblot with 
a text phrase that would be 
stored in random order with 
the password. In the future, 
upon signing in, a user would 
have to match phrases with 
their respective inkblots.
While this may sound like 
a simple security system, 
it is near impossible for a 
computer to solve. In a press 
release, Jeremiah Blocki, a 
Ph.D. computer science student who helped develop 
GOTCHA, said, These are 
puzzles that are easy for a 
human to solve, but hard for 
a computer to solve, even if it 
has the random bits used to 
generate the puzzle.
Blocki developed GOTCHA along with Manuel 
Blum, professor of computer 
science, and Anupam Datta, 
associate director of computer science and electrical and 
computer engineering.
GOTCHA would be helpful with security breaches of 
websites from which millions 
of user passwords are stolen 
 a problem that has affected companies like LinkedIn, Sony, and Gawker. The 
system would ensure that a 
sophisticated computer program would be unable to 
crack an account.
Student awarded scholarship from (ISC) Foundation
CMU research shows inkblots improve password security
Compiled by
ALVIN MATHEW

---------------------------------------------------

November 11, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3


---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  November 11, 2013
ROHAN VARMA
Staffwriter
You dont decide the circumstances of your birth, such 
as who your parents are, where 
you live, or your familys ?nancial status. But according to 
the ongoing research of Sheldon Cohen, a professor of psychology at Carnegie Mellon, 
these uncontrollable factors 
greatly in?uence health and 
wellness.
Since 2004, Cohen has attempted to ?nd a causal relationship between lower socioeconomic status and health. 
Studying subjects in the Pittsburgh area, his research group 
mapped the socioeconomic 
backgrounds of its volunteers 
and then exposed them to the 
common cold to ?nd their 
susceptibility.
There was a very linear relationship between the number of years in a lower socioeconomic status and whether 
they got sick: the more years 
without a home, the more 
likely to respond to the virus, 
Cohen said.
In psychological studies, 
home ownership is widely 
used as a marker for socioeconomic status. It is considered 
a marker of income, wealth, 
and social status, Cohen said.
However, the results from 
the ?rst study revealed that 
not just people in extreme 
poverty feel the effects. Cohen 
said, It turns out that the association follows a gradient. 
The risk gradually decreases 
with more and more years 
with home ownership.
With these results in hand, 
it was clear that the relationship between poverty and 
health was not so black and 
white.
Cohen sought after other 
explanations, looking at common habits associated with 
low living standards such as 
increased alcohol consumption, smoking, and lack of exercise. However, none of these 
standards were able to prove 
the experimental results.
Last week, Cohen published groundbreaking research that could potentially 
solve this conundrum. He 
found a biological link between a lower socioeconomic 
status during childhood and a 
higher susceptibility to catching the common cold. According to his research, this 
relationship can be explained 
through telomeres.
Telomeres are essentially 
shields placed on the ends of 
DNA that protects it from degrading every time the cell 
replicates. However, telomeres slowly decrease in size 
over time; when they are no 
longer able to do their job, the 
cell is unable to replicate and 
dies.
In 2004, Cohen published 
research suggesting that a 
lower socioeconomic status 
in childhood could indicate a 
weaker resistance to infection. 
Consequently, Cohen said his 
latest research was driven by 
two fundamental questions: 
Can we replicate the previous ?ndings we had in 2004, 
and can we explain them 
through telomere length? His 
research group was able to accomplish both goals.
Not only did the study uphold the strong correlation 
between childhood living 
standards and the likelihood 
of receiving an infection, but 
it also found that volunteers 
with lower socioeconomic status consistently had shorter 
telomeres.
This doesnt mean there 
is a direct causal relationship. 
However, the data is consistent. Statistically, 25 percent 
of susceptibility to the cold 
can be attributed to telomere 
length, Cohen said.
He also mentioned that 
one factor that holds a strong 
correlation with shortened 
telomeres is stress. This is one 
possible explanation for his 
results, because people growing up in unstable living situations are likely to experience 
much more stress in their early 
years.
Moving forward, Cohen is 
going to continue this line of 
research. His lab is beginning 
a large project that will determine whether or not a lower 
socioeconomic status causes 
a faster rate of telomere degradation. This study will be 
conducted with over 1,500 
volunteers. Fifteen years ago, 
Cohen recorded the social 
and economic backgrounds of 
these individuals and extracted samples of their blood. He 
will now go back to the volunteers and take down the same 
recordings. He hypothesizes 
that the subjects from a lower 
social status have a higher 
telomere degradation rate.
Cohen believes his research 
is providing vital information 
on how living standards can 
have a direct biological impact on humans. While it has 
always been clear that it is important to allocate resources 
toward bringing people out 
of poverty, this research may 
suggest that it should not be 
just a goal, but a priority.
Researcher links class status with ?u susceptibility 
SONIA KATHARANI-KHAN
Staffwriter
It is hard to imagine invisibility, popularized by science 
?ction and fantasy, becoming part of our world  but 
every day, science comes 
closer to making invisibility a 
reality. Although theyre still 
experimenting, researchers 
have made signi?cant progress in developing invisibility 
cloaks. Though Harry Potters mythical invisibility cloak 
is likely the ?rst thing that 
comes to mind, these cloaks 
unfortunately wont have the 
ability to make humans disappear anytime soon. However, 
if fully developed, their applications could include masking boats, planes, or military 
tanks  and in the distant 
future, they could even render 
events in time invisible. In the 
past week, research by scientists at the University of Texas 
at Dallas has put the idea of 
invisibility devices in the spotlight. But how do these pieces 
of technology work?
The fundamental idea behind achieving invisibility is 
to prevent an object from absorbing, refracting, or re?ecting light in any way. In other 
words, it must be able to bend 
light away from itself. There 
have been numerous attempts 
to achieve this effect, such as 
carbon nanotube cloaks, but 
the method closest to perfecting the effect uses metamaterials, manmade materials that 
have properties natural materials lack.
Most attempts at cloaking 
could bend light around an 
object, but could not stop light 
from re?ecting off of it. Thus, 
much like water or glass, the 
object was nearly invisible, 
but re?ected just enough light 
to be detectable. One recent 
metamaterial cloak, developed at Duke University under the leadership of professor David R. Smith, was able 
to minimize the re?ection by 
altering the shape of the materials in the cloak.
The cloak works by causing light waves to split, bend 
around it and reconverge 
once they pass the object. It 
resembles a square, with an 
inverted diamond protruding 
from the center, and divided 
into four quadrants, consisting of ?berglass etched with 
copper. The diamond-shaped 
center is empty, outlined by 
copper strips. The strips are 
designed such that each strip 
meets its mirror image at every interface. This stops the 
cloak from re?ecting any light 
from its edges.
The cloak can perfectly 
hide a 30.4-inch (7.51cm) 
cylinder from microwave radiation, but not in the visible 
light spectrum. Unfortunately, 
the cloak can only mask small, 
stationary, two-dimensional 
items; it cannot hide objects 
from the human eye in all directions. So, how does invisibility at other wavelengths 
provide any practical use? 
In answering this, it is important to recall that certain 
objects can be invisible to the 
human eye but still visible at 
other wavelengths. For example, while humans do not see 
at the microwave level, cell 
phones and radars do. Once 
fully developed, invisibility 
at the microwave level could 
make planes, boats, or tanks 
undetectable by radar, rendering them invisible. Thus, 
such invisibility has potential 
applications in the defense industry. Though it will still be 
at least a decade before invisibility is put to practical use, its 
potential application has received wide recognition, and 
research behind it has been 
funded by organizations such 
as DARPA and NASA.
On a more theoretical note, 
scientists at Cornell University took a step further by not 
only splitting light waves, but 
altering the speed at which 
each wave moved. The effect 
was achieved by shooting out 
a beam of light, and creating a 
time lens  a lens which splits 
light into temporal components  with other beams to 
split the light into two different parts that move at different speeds. The difference in 
speeds created a gap in time, 
which masked whatever event 
took place during that gap. 
The effect lasted no longer 
than a 40th of a second, and 
within a ?ber thinner than 
human hair. Nonetheless, the 
experiment in effect erased 
a brief moment of history.
Though we won't be owning our own invisibility cloaks 
anytime soon, the ability to 
revolutionize the defense and 
communications industries, 
or to perhaps even render time 
invisible, is on the horizon. 
Considering that even Harry 
Potter could not hide time, we 
can take solace in the fact that 
though we cannot recreate 
science ?ction, someday, we 
may just surpass it.
India launches maiden rocket to Mars
India launched its ?rst 
rocket to Mars last Tuesday 
with the goal to complete 
the mission using less money 
than other nations have previously. Successful missions 
to Mars thus far have been 
completed by the United 
States, the European Union, 
and Russia; China attempted 
an unsuccessful mission two 
years ago. Indias probe costs 
only 4.5 billion rupees ($73 
million), which is a fraction 
of the cost of NASAs upcoming Mars Atmosphere and 
Volatile EvolutioN (MAVEN) 
mission. It has also been designed to orbit Earth six or 
seven times to build up momentum before being slingshotted to the red planet, in 
order to save fuel. The rocket 
is scheduled to enter Marss 
orbit by next September.
Source: Reuters
Discovery of Higgs only brings more mysteries
Joseph Lykken, a theorist 
at the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory, and Maria 
Spiropulu of the California 
Institute of Technology, conducted research that predicts 
that sometime in the distant 
future, a minuscule quantum ?uctuation will cause 
the Higgs ?eld to drop to a 
lower energy state. Since 
the Higgs ?eld permeates all 
space, this seemingly small 
change would destroy reality as we know it in the blink 
of an eye. Fortunately, this 
is but one of many theories 
that have developed after the 
recent discovery of the Higgs 
Boson, which seems to have 
caused more mysteries than 
its solved.
Source: The New York Times
Compiled By
BROOKE KUEI
SCITECH BRIEFSHOW THINGS WORKInvisibility cloaks still distant from reality
Michael Setzer/SciTech Editor
Michael Setzer/SciTech Editor
Biologists study single-cell reproduction
While almost all multicellular organisms have evolved 
to reproduce using single 
cells, such as eggs and sperm, 
why this method became so 
universal has long puzzled 
scientists. To study this trait, 
University of Minnesota 
postdoctoral fellow William 
Ratcliff and associate professor Michael Travisano have 
transformed a single-celled 
algae into a multicellular one 
that reproduces with single 
cells. Many scientists assumed that single-cell reproduction evolved much later 
than multicellularity, but 
their study yielded surprising 
results: Single-cell reproduction arose at the same time as 
multicellularity.
Source: Science Daily 
Worldwide star?sh deaths stump scientists
Star?sh populations worldwide have fallen prey to the 
seastar wasting syndrome, 
which causes star?sh to lose 
their arms. This disease usually occurs if the star?sh is 
wounded or becomes too dry, 
and it grows infected lesions 
that lead to its arms falling 
off. While this disease usually 
only occurs to one or two star?sh within a population and 
is not often lethal, millions 
of star?sh from populations 
around the world have not 
only contracted the disease, 
but are unable to recover from 
it. While unusually warm waters may be a cause, the real 
culprit of this outbreak is yet 
is to be discovered, and scientists are unsure how long it 
will last.
Source: Time

---------------------------------------------------

November 11, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
RAGHUNANDAN AVULA
Staffwriter
In recent decades, scientists have taken an interdisciplinary approach that integrates computer science and 
biology to develop a deeper 
understanding of the intricate 
details that contribute to a 
healthy organism. Kriti Puniyani, a Ph.D. student in the 
School of Computer Science, 
working under the guidance of 
professor Eric Xing, developed 
GINI, a tool that analyzes images of biological organisms 
at the molecular level using in 
situ hybridization and determines the expression of mRNA 
to develop gene regulation 
networks. Scientists at Carnegie Mellons School of Computer Science and the Lane 
Center for Computational Biology have been actively developing tools at the forefront 
of this revolution in biology.
President Subra Suresh 
mentioned in his lecture last 
week that the combination 
of biology and other disciplines of engineering, math, 
and computers  such as 
the modeling of blood ?ow 
through the heart  is not a 
novel advancement. Modern 
biological research, however, 
has focused on understanding biological complexity at 
the molecular level involving 
cells, DNA, and proteins. A 
new, growing ?eld of research 
applies computational modeling and engineering to this 
analysis to help answer questions biologists have about the 
miniscule interactions inside a 
living organism.
In a multicellular organism, every cell contains the 
same exact copy of DNA. DNA 
is like a cookbook of genes that 
give the cell instructions on 
how to build a variety of proteins that perform different 
functions inside the cell. However, at any given time, each 
cell produces only a speci?c 
set of proteins that it needs. 
Different cell types, such as 
heart cells versus hair cells, 
produce a unique set of proteins that are speci?c toward 
the function of the cell.
A large portion of biological research involves understanding the functions of each 
protein and, more importantly, the interactions between 
proteins and other molecules 
such as DNA. Cells have a 
complex system by which 
one protein can regulate the 
expression of other proteins. 
Biologists want to model this 
system, but the task is challenging because the regulatory networks are very complex.
Modern computational 
techniques have attempted 
to address this issue by utilizing mRNA expression data. 
When building a protein, a cell 
converts the gene in the form 
of DNA into an intermediate 
molecule of mRNA that is directly used to build the protein. By measuring the speci?c 
mRNA present in a cell at a  
given time, scientists can get a 
good idea of the different proteins that are being expressed 
in that cell.
Based on this data, computational biologists can generate a graph or map known 
as a Markov model in where 
the nodes of the graph are 
proteins and the edges of the 
graph are connections that 
exist between proteins. Two 
proteins are connected if one 
impacts anothers gene expression.
Previously, scientists favored microarray technology 
to determine mRNA expression of a speci?c gene in an organism and to generate a map 
similar to a gene regulatory 
network. However, there are 
limitations with this method. 
According to Puniyani, microarray data only present a binary, on-or-off status of a gene 
and is ill-suited for multicellular 
organisms because it only represents the average expression 
in a sample and can lead to severe information loss and inaccuracy in further experiments.
Puniyani explained ISH 
technology reveals a more 
holistic view of the activities and functions of genes. 
In this technique, ?uorescent 
tags bind to a speci?c mRNA 
sequence in an organism. It 
can then be imaged as a microscope identi?es where and 
how much mRNA is being expressed at a given time.
SPEX, a previously developed computer vision tool, 
analyzes the images and determines gene expression. 
With this data, scientists determine the collection of images or bags in which each 
gene appears and constructs 
a Markov random ?eld graph 
structure. Unlike microarray 
data, which produces a unique 
value for each gene expression, this model is represented 
by a vector-valued spatial pattern. The program then determines similarity between bags 
and estimates a probable gene 
interaction network.
To test GINI, Puniyani and 
Xing produced a small arti?-
cial data set and found that 
their program generated a reasonable gene network.
The ability to understand 
gene networks is extremely 
useful in understanding how 
cells differentiate into distinct 
types. For example, multicellular organisms begin as a 
single cell. As the cell divides 
and the embryo grows, cells 
specialize and different proteins are expressed into different cells. 
The uniqueness of protein 
expression results in some 
cells becoming part of the 
head of the ?y while others 
become part of its posterior 
end, for example. As the embryo grows, cells differentiate 
into 14 segments of the adult 
?y and the gene interaction 
network changes as new genes 
are expressed in different cell 
types.
Puniyani found that the 
Berkeley Drosophila Genome 
Project had generated 110,000 
ISH images of fruit ?y embryos capturing patterns of 
7,516 genes and provided an 
ideal data set to test the viability of GINI. Puniyani was 
glad to ?nd that GINI returned 
a very probable network and 
displayed certain gene interactions that had already been 
mentioned in the literature.
GINI can be applied to a 
variety of experiments and 
provides biologists with an ef?cient tool to build gene interaction networks. It surpasses 
many of the limitations of the 
previous microarray method. 
Following the completion 
of their work, Puniyani and 
Xings research was published 
in the October issue of PLOS 
Computational Biology.
Looking forward, Puniyani 
hopes to expand the tool to 
combine data from multiple 
states and have GINI produce 
a time varying Markov model. 
This idea has been successfully 
implemented with microarray 
data, but Puniyani added that 
it is much more dif?cult to implement with image data.
Scientists create program to help model gene expression
Article: 
Fine-grained temporal coding of visually-similar categories in the ventral visual pathway and prefrontal cortex.
Published: 
Frontiers in Psychology, October 2013
Who: 
Researchers in the departments of machine learning, psychology, and statistics at Carnegie Mellon, as 
well as researchers in the Center for the Neural Basis of 
Cognition and United States Air Force Academy.
Background: 
Humans can distinguish visually similar categories very 
well. A good example is the ability to distinguish between poisonous berries and ripe ones. Scientists refer to this phenomena as subordinate-level categorization, which is a higher skill 
than basic-level categorization, which is distinguishing between two obviously different objects, such as an airplane and a computer. If one becomes an expert in a particular subject, they 
perform subordinate-level categorization just as intuitively as basic-level categorization. An example the authors give is an expert bird-watcher who can tell bird species apart as easily as a 
layperson could tell a bird from a chair.
Hypothesis: 
The scientists were aware of two regions in the brain associated with the process of categorization: the ventral visual pathway (VVP) and the prefrontal cortex (PFC). However, current 
understanding of the mechanisms behind categorization is poor. The researchers proposed using 
magnetoencephalography (MEG), an imaging technique that can track brain activity, to test two 
leading hypotheses.
The ?rst hypothesis emphasizes the role of the PFC and states the role of the VVP as helpful 
to visual identi?cation but not categorization. The other leading hypothesis states that the PFC 
and VVP play complementary and nearly equal roles in visual processing and categorization. 
The Carnegie Mellon team hypothesized that there are necessary contributions from both brain 
regions.
The Experiment: 
The researchers created two similar shape categories. They devised a unique series of bloblike shapes that were in one of two categories, designated A and B. Although each blob was 
unique, blobs in categories A and B had distinguishing characteristics. The MEG monitored neural activity as the participants were trained in how to discriminate between the two categories. 
The MEG gave researchers a chance to observe what happens in the brain when participants 
discriminate between blob categories.
Results: 
The research suggested that the VVP is integral to discriminating between two categories of 
similar-looking objects. Surprisingly, the researchers found no evidence to support the idea of 
explicit coding of information in the PFC. The researchers admit that they used a fairly small 
sample size, and that further research is needed. Future applications of similar research could 
help determine the mechanisms behind visual procession and learning.
Article: 
Source Water Changes and Energy Extraction Activities in the Monongahela River, 
2009-2012.
Published: 
Environmental Science and Technology, October 2013
Who: 
Jeanne Van Briesen, professor of civil engineering at Carnegie Mellon, and Jessica Wilson of 
the department of civil and environmental engineering at Manhattan College.
Background: 
The Monongahela River runs through southwestern Pennsylvania and north-central West 
Virginia. Over the course of the 20th century, the river has been exposed to drainage from abandoned coal mines and waste-water from conventional oil and gas production. In addition, unconventional methods of gas extraction has dramatically expanded, especially in the Marcellus Shale 
gas reserve. This is of interest as the Monongahela River is the source for 17 drinking water plants 
that serve over 1 million people.
Hypothesis: 
The study looks at water properties pertinent to drinking quality between September 2009 
and September 2012. The researchers aimed to determine if changes posed a threat to drinking 
quality and if the changes were due to seasonal variability or due to waste-water disposals of oil 
and gas.
The Experiment: 
Water samples were taken from six drinking water treatment plants on the Monongahela 
River. The samples were analyzed for total dissolved solids, pH, sulfate, chloride, and bromide 
concentrations and analyzed within two weeks of collection. The samples were 500 milliliters in 
size. The researchers also collected data on the seasonal ?ow of the river. This was necessary as 
they needed to compare concentration levels relative to ?ow rate.
Results: 
The researchers looked at both constituent loads, which are determined by multiplying concentrations of pollutants in the water by the ?ow, and constituent ratios, which compare concentration of pollutants to the ?ow. It was expected that the highest constituent loads would occur 
during periods of high ?ow and that similar constituent loads would occur during periods of 
similar ?ow. 
Looking at constituent loads, they found that observed increases in bromide and chloride 
occurred during different time periods, indicating that the ions came from different sources. 
Accounting for the ratios, they found that overall bromide levels increased in May of 2010, and 
decreased in 2012. The researchers concluded that levels maintained at these concentrations 
would not pose a threat in drinking water. In terms of sources of ions, it would be nearly impossible to determine if ions came speci?cally from unconventional natural gas.
Compiled by 
MICHAEL SETZER
Research Roundup: Published papers by CMU faculty
Michael Setzer/SciTech Editor
GINI can be applied to a variety 
of experiments and provides 
biologists with an ef?cient tool to 
build gene interaction networks. It 
surpasses many of the limitations 
of the previous microarray 
method. 

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University. 
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
StaffEditorial Board
Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
 2013 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
JENNIFER COLOMA *
Publisher
JOSH SMITH *
Editor-in-Chief
BRADEN KELNER 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN *
Copy Manager
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Online Editor
CHLOE THOMPSON
Staffwriter
BRENT HEARD *
Staffwriter
A6  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  November 11, 2013
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Carl Glazer, Greg Hanneman
COPY
Lula Beresford-Banker, Francesca Begos, Matt 
Brown, Connie Chan, Nivedita Chopra, Gordon 
Estes, Blaine Greenberg, Ariel Hoffmaier, 
Katherine Huang, Evaline Ju, Karyn Michela, 
Satvika Neti, Mackenzie Nicholson, Gates 
Palissery, Syed Rahman, Taylor Rawley, Kevin 
Reichek, Stephanie Stern
LAYOUT
Adrian Amegashie, Manali Banjeree, Yong Gun 
Choe, Sara-Remi Fields, Anne-Sophie Kim, 
Mina Kim, Linging Sun, Tanguri Tzuo
ADVERTISING
Alison Chiu, Linda Ju, Anuva Kulkarni, 
Gretchen Tan
KELSEY SCOTT *
Operations Manager
NEL UM
News Co-Editor
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Co-Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
SciTech Editor
WILLIAM PARK
Sports Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Pillbox Editor
KAIRAVI CHAHAL
Comics Editor
KATE GROSCHNER
Photo Editor
ANNETTE KO
Art Editor
LAURA SCHERB
Personnel Manager
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
SWATHI ANAND
Layout Manager
JOHN HUO
Advertising Manager
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
BENJAMIN CHANG
Asst. Business Manager
JONATHAN LEUNG
Asst. Photo Editor
HANNAH DELLABELLA
Asst. Copy Manager
JAMES WU
Asst. Copy Manager
JULIA YANG
Asst. Copy Manager
BROOKE KUEI
Asst. SciTech Editor
JOEY PEISER
Asst. Pillbox Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Contributing Editor
Editorial Staff
* Denotes executive committee member
The Supreme Court declined to 
hear an Oklahoma case on limiting 
chemical abortions on Monday. This 
decision means that Oklahomas 
own Supreme Court ruling, which 
struck down the attempt to ban all 
chemical abortions, will stand. The 
Oklahoma ban proposed limits on 
virtually all kinds of chemical abortions, most notably the drugs mifepristone and misprostol, according 
to The Huf?ngton Post. These drugs 
may be used in tandem during the 
?rst seven weeks of pregnancy.
According to news organization 
Al Jazeera America, this proposed 
ban is the most extreme of its kind in 
the U.S., as it essentially prevents all 
types of chemical abortions. While 
the scienti?c conversation surrounding chemical abortions is important 
and relevant, legal battles involving the use of these drugs often get 
bogged down in political rhetoric 
that has little to do with medical 
fact. The argument against chemical 
abortion focused on it being unsafe 
for women; however, this is untrue.
Chemically induced abortions, or 
medical abortions, involve changing the hormone levels in a womans body to induce a miscarriage, 
according to Planned Parenthood. 
While taking an abortion pill has 
potential side effects, medical abortions are safe procedures, with limited risks for the women seeking 
them. Anti-abortion activists in this 
particular case are claiming that 
medical abortions hold medical risk 
for women, ignoring the fact that 
all medical procedures carry some 
element of risk, and those involved 
in medical abortions are no higher 
than other types of procedures. Over 
1.4 million women have used these 
drugs to induce abortions; eight of 
them have died, which the state of 
Oklahoma argued constitutes an 
unacceptable risk to women. In the 
United States, 1 in 2,400 women die 
in natural childbirth per year, which 
means that chemical abortions of 
this nature are actually safer for 
women than natural childbirth.
Anti-abortion activists use rhetoric that is supposedly pro-women 
to control womens access to abortion and reproductive healthcare. 
For example, many anti-abortion 
activists ?ght to limit Planned Parenthood, claiming that its main purpose is to provide abortions. In 2011, 
Arizona Senator John Kyl claimed 
on the Senate ?oor that 90 percent 
of Planned Parenthoods services 
are abortions. According to Planned 
Parenthood, only three percent of its 
services focus on abortions. Kyl later 
retracted that statement, according 
to NPR, but its legacy remains in policy making today.
Rhetoric of abortions shroud legal battles
Last months Healthy U survey 
was a unique opportunity for University Health Services to gauge campus 
health and well-being for both graduate and undergraduate students at 
Carnegie Mellon. Never before have 
graduate students been included in a 
campus health survey.
This fact is surprising for a school 
with such a large percentage of graduate students  6,685 of the schools 
12,991 students are masters or doctoral students, according to Carnegie 
Mellon Institutional Research and 
Analysis.
While the inclusion of graduate 
students in the survey is a step in the 
right direction, the administration 
and campus organizations should 
push for even greater recognition of 
graduate students in university-wide 
initiatives.
The needs and wants of undergraduates and graduate students 
arent the same. While many of the 
graduate programs at the university 
are research-based, undergraduates 
generally adhere to the core curriculum of their programs. While the academic programs of each group are 
different, the university can focus on 
ensuring that undergraduates and 
graduate students receive equal attention and concern.
One opportunity for equal attention is to renew efforts for the 
Activities Fee so that it is distributed toward graduate students and 
undergraduates more evenly. Many 
student organizations and events are 
tailored more for undergraduates 
than graduate students. However, 
according to the Carnegie Mellon 
University Student Activities Fee policy, a portion of graduate students 
activities fees goes to the Graduate 
Student Assembly. This allocation 
will hopefully go to more programs 
and activities geared for graduate 
students.
Concern over student life and 
well-being has been a prominent issue over the past year. The administration needs to make sure that in 
addressing concerns, a signi?cant 
portion of the Carnegie Mellon community isnt overlooked. The inclusion of graduate students in the 
Healthy U survey is a nice gesture, 
but more needs to be done in order 
to truly improve the quality of life at 
Carnegie Mellon for all students, faculty, and staff.
CMU initiatives must include grad students
JUSTIN YAN
Timothy Lavin, an editorial board 
member of Bloomberg, published an 
article in late August titled, Why I 
Hate Pandas and You Should Too. 
Having carried a panda cub in my 
youth in the Chengdu Research Base 
of Giant Panda Breeding and seen 
two cubs mature in Hong Kongs 
Ocean Park, I cannot help but to 
disagree with Lavin because his arguments and interpretations of declining panda populations and evolution are misled.
Lavin calls for pandas to be let go 
 for humans around the world to 
leave pandas alone to slowly die off. 
He states, Darwinism isnt for crybabies, and points to their sluggish 
natural breeding habits as the main 
reason for their decline. To a certain extent, he is right. Pandas have 
trouble reproducing: The Washington Zoo had to resort to arti?cial 
insemination to get their pandas to 
produce offspring. Lavin then points 
to the biological structure of pandas, 
saying that eating bamboo all day is 
speeding their own demise. He also 
calls attention to the costliness of 
maintaining a panda. Canada spent 
$10 million last year on maintaining pandas and paying China to rent 
them, as all pandas are owned by 
China.
He then brings up and mocks 
Chinas efforts to reintroduce the 
species into the wild: Researchers dress up in preposterous panda 
costumes ... hoping to fool cubs into 
thinking theyre a relative.
First off, Levins statements lay 
close to the topic of eugenics and 
all the atrocities that come along 
with that, but many of his facts are 
facts. Yes, the panda is ill-adapted. 
It has the body and teeth of a bear, 
yet it eats bamboo all day. This habit 
is where Lavin got his facts wrong. 
From a simple, cost-bene?t analysis, 
its clear that it is more ef?cient for a 
panda to lie around all day and grab 
bamboo  the fastest growing grass 
in the world  than for a panda to 
chase prey around a forest or claw 
at a river. Pandas, in some ways, are 
lazily ef?cient.
What about Lavins fact about 
breeding? Its a little off as well. It 
is incredibly hard for researchers to 
understand the mechanics and general aura for animals to breed. Cheetahs do not breed well in captivity. 
Pandas dont either. Its a fallacy to 
blame pandas for not breeding well; 
its just that humans havent discovered the entire process and life cycle 
of the giant panda, as it is incredibly 
hard to ?nd one in the wild. Why is it 
hard to ?nd them in the wild?
Humans have disturbed habitats 
like no other organism. They have 
destroyed the colorful biodiversity 
all around them, and thats why 
pandas are stuck in captivity. Its 
the only option for them until humans take giant leaps in researching the life cycle of the giant panda. 
Extensive human incursions into 
the panda habitats in the Minshan 
Mountains in China have threatened 
around 40 percent of the population, according to Conservation.org. 
By saving the panda, we are also 
saving the biodiversity of the habitat 
around pandas.
It is imperative to protect biodiversity. Darwinism should not refer 
to animals dying off but to the incredibly diverse array of lifeforms 
on this planet. So no, Darwinism 
is not a harsh truth that we have to 
face, but something were supposed 
to embrace. We must embrace pandas as a diverse species like no other. 
It would be an incredible waste if let 
the only species of giant panda die 
off. Furthermore, pandas survive 
in a rich, diverse environment. According to the World Wildlife Fund 
(WWF), by saving the panda, we are 
also saving the natural balance of 
the ecosystem. Pandas have disappeared from these environments, 
and their numbers are slowly on 
the decline. Researchers are racing 
to ?nd out how to best reintroduce 
pandas into the wild and preserve 
this fragile balance.
The seas all around us are devolving because of humans. We have 
reached too far and ?shed too much, 
and nature is paying the price. Coral 
reefs now become green algaeinfested murky depths, and entire 
food chains have been disrupted. 
Rainforests around the world have 
been devastated by deforestation. 
According to the WWF, 17 percent 
of the Amazon has been lost in the 
last 50 years. Deforestation leads to 
a loss of biodiversity and heavy erosion, which heavily changes water 
patterns within the landscape, and 
can heavily impact even more organisms. For pandas, there are so 
little left that the main habitat is the 
Minshan Mountains, which houses 
45 percent of the wild panda population. That 45 percent represents 
around 720 pandas. We need to protect pandas because we have to protect what we as humans have left.
Justin Yan (jky@) is a staffwriter for 
The Tartan.
To save the environment,save the giant pandas
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor
Cuts in Farm Bill should not target the poor
The debate surrounding the United States Farm Bill is poised to have 
a devastating effect on the nations 
poor. The Farm Bill provides subsidies and interventions in markets 
related to food consumption and agricultural production. As of Nov. 1, 
families receiving food stamps started to receive a ?ve percent reduction 
in bene?ts, equating to a reduction 
of about $36 per month for a family 
of four, according to the Washington 
Post. This change results from recent 
action taken by Congress, which 
passed the Farm Bill containing 
provisions for reducing the quantity 
spent on food stamps.
Food stamps have traditionally 
been bundled as part of the Farm 
Bill, which is passed roughly every 
?ve years and funds crop subsidies, 
crop protection, and environmental 
programs in addition to food stamps. 
The New York Times estimates that 
the newest Farm Bill will cost almost 
$1 trillion over the next 10 years. 
Because of these projections, it is 
understandable that politicians are 
concerned about this magnitude of 
spending. However, cuts should not 
be made at the expense of our nations poorest.
We live in a time of rising costs 
of living and uncertain employment 
prospects. Removing the safety net 
on which many Americans depend 
is neither a fair nor just way to trim 
government spending.
Of the subsidies within the Farm 
Bill, over 80 percent are ?owing to 
farming families that are wealthier 
than the average American household, according to an editorial published by U.S. News & World Report. 
Additionally, the continued subsidizing of corn and other crop in the 
United States creates distortionary 
economic effects, and tampers with 
markets in dangerous ways.
Cutting spending is a de?nite 
concern facing our nation. However, 
we must not go about addressing it in 
a way that hurts the poorest people 
in the country.
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
The Tartan is excited to have prospective students on campus this week. So we asked,
What are your ?rst impressions of Carnegie Mellon?
Compiled by Kate Groschner and Braden Kelner
Megan Hoppe
Seattle, Washington
Impressive. It seems really 
strong.
Colin King
Towson, Maryland
Its a beautiful campus. Theres 
a lot of beautiful architecture.
Morgan Reynolds
Springfield, Ohio
I really like all the old buildings. I think theyre really pretty. 
People are very personable.
Zach Pendley
Wilmington, Delaware
Everybody seems really friendly. 
Everyone was smiling when I 
walked in.
Emily Stewart
Nashville, Tennessee
Its a really pretty campus and it 
seems like there are really interesting programs.
November 11, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A7
ARIEL HOFFMAIER
The connection between the 
classroom and technology has 
become ubiquitous and inexorable. A study by the University 
of Nebraska-Lincoln published in 
the October issue of the Journal 
of Media Education reported that 
American college students check 
their phones an average of 11 times 
a day while in class  a statistic that 
should not be surprising to college 
students of the modern age. Additionally, while 91 percent of students 
were opposed to a total ban of digital 
devices in class, 80 percent believed 
those same devices were a distraction that interfered with learning.
This disparity is baf?ing on the 
surface. If students agree that laptops and smartphones are distracting  both to themselves and others 
around them  why is there virtual 
consensus that a ban, which would 
surely solve the problem, is not an 
option?
Its complicated. Even though it 
would logically make sense to force 
students to stow away their laptops 
and turn their phones in at the start 
of class, technology has become so 
integral to the lives of young people 
that the loss of their devices would 
be akin to identity theft or a missing 
limb. 
The irritation felt by a student 
toward another student playing 
Candy Crush in class, along with the 
knowledge that they are also prone 
to mindless Internet sur?ng, does 
not seem to matter. College students 
balk at the seemingly extreme prospect of a total ban, indignant that 
professors might respect their selfcontrol so little.
Though they may hesitate to admit it, students might be wary of the 
absence of this constant source of 
entertainment and communication. 
Smartphones have become shields, 
protecting people from boredom and 
awkwardness, but also keeping them 
from actively engaging with the outside world. 
Phone-checking has become an 
almost arbitrary re?ex, so how does 
one begin to work against such a 
re?ex?
Additionally, it must be questioned whether or not the damage 
of a society driven by technology has 
already been done. Attention spans 
are shorter than ever  or at least, 
teachers seem to think so. 
According to a 2012 study conducted by the Pew Research Center, 
87 percent of teachers believe that 
digital technology is creating a generation with shorter attention spans, 
and 64 percent say that these technologies distract students more than 
they help them learn.
Teachers may feel pressured to 
adjust their methods  to do a song 
and dance, so to speak  in an attempt to match even the base level 
of excitement and entertainment 
that kids have grown used to with 
televisions and the Internet. Perhaps 
taking away laptops and phones will 
do nothing to improve student focus, 
and will leave professors in worse 
places than where they started. Can 
old-fashioned focus be relearned, or 
is it inevitable that only professors 
with multimedia-based, animated 
spunk are able to capture and keep 
their students attentions?
Either way, it has been proven 
time and again that technology can 
be utilized to great effect in classrooms. The possibilities for educational enhancement through integration of technology are endless. 
Research skills, innovation, and 
globalization can all be advanced in 
curricula fused with technology. If it 
is true that attention spans can never 
return to what they once were, then 
it is crucial for schools to meet students halfway.
Is there an ideal compromise? 
Students already use technology outside of the classroom  it would be 
impossible to monitor email, type an 
essay, or suffer through WebAssign 
without it.
Therefore, where it is relevant 
and engaging, professors must bring 
technology into the classroom by allowing students to use phones and 
laptops to enhance lessons in new 
and innovative ways. More than possible, this possibility is the future. 
In return, students ability  and 
desire  to resist the draw of the Internet will grow.
Ariel Hoffmaier (ahoffmai@) is a 
staffwriter for The Tartan.
Rethink technology in classrooms
BRANDON SCHMUCK 
Is there any hope for a company 
that went from owning half of the 
cellular device market to less than 
four percent in just four years? 
Thats the question revolving around 
BlackBerry Limited, the maker of a 
line of cellphones that was once essential to many business people. In 
a Nov. 4 press release, BlackBerry 
announced that John Chen would 
replace the ousted CEO Thorsten 
Heins. Chen is con?dent that he can 
bring this dying company around, 
but acknowledged in a phone interview with Reuters that it could take 
up to six quarters, or a year and a 
half, to do so.
Perhaps the largest problem that 
Chen will face in reviving the company is that BlackBerry is currently 
facing an identity crisis. 
With devices like the BlackBerry 
Z10 and the BlackBerry Playbook, 
the company attempts to be something that it is not: a consumeroriented company. It attempts to 
emulate Apple and Google instead 
of keeping its primary focus on 
enterprise.
BlackBerry thrived in a time before companies allowed employees 
to use their own devices on the job. 
BlackBerries were never meant to 
allow people to play Angry Birds, 
listen to music, or use applications. 
They were devices that separated 
personal lives from professional 
lives. BlackBerry phones were 
meant strictly for productivity and 
business, not for entertainment.
BlackBerry provides many 
unique bene?ts for enterprise, and it 
must use its resources to tout these 
bene?ts. Very few teenagers would 
be willing to trade in their colorful, 
playful iPhone 5Cs for dark, corporate-styled BlackBerry Z10s with a 
fraction of the applications. So why 
does BlackBerry attempt to target 
younger markets with its recently 
enlarged touchscreens and focus on 
personal media?
Based upon interviews conducted by CNN, there are three basic reasons why people love their 
BlackBerries: People are addicted 
to the physical keyboards, they like 
the red light that alerts them of new 
messages, and many use the device 
for work. These people are buying 
a cellular device strictly for productive communication, not to play Angry Birds or do anything that would 
require a large touchscreen.
If BlackBerry can distance itself 
from these mainstream applications, 
it may still have a chance to recover 
the audience that does not purchase 
phones for entertainment. BlackBerry must act swiftly to restore 
its company to its bold past. Chen 
stated that it would take a year and 
a half to turn the company around, 
but he may not even have that long. 
People still remember the old BlackBerry, and the brand continues to be 
reminiscent of a professional and sophisticated brand. 
However, this becomes less true 
every year, as more customers are 
drawn to the likes of Apple and Android. A comScore report shows that 
Android and Apple now control 51.8 
and 40.6 percent of the smartphone 
market, respectively, while BlackBerry has a dwindling marketshare 
of 3.8 percent.
While it will be dif?cult, Chen 
is the perfect choice of CEO to attempt to bring a company back to 
its former glory. He is not new to the 
idea of taking a dying company and 
bringing it back from the dead: He 
managed to save database company 
Sybase when he took the company 
over in 1998 and cut $100 million 
in costs. He ensured that Sybase 
did not compete directly with large 
software giants like Oracle and managed to sell it for $5.8 billion in 2010.
With his past experience, Chen 
will be able to cut costs inside BlackBerry, curtail it into a specialized 
market away from direct competition with Apple and Android, and 
perhaps even turn BlackBerry back 
into the company that businesspeople once admired.
Brandon Schmuck (bschmuck@) is a 
staffwriter for The Tartan.
New CEO can make 
BlackBerry bold again
KYLE HENSON
Other than Obamas sound bite, 
If you like your insurance, you will 
keep it, the most memorable quote 
from the Affordable Care Act  more 
commonly known as Obamacare 
 debate is, insurance companies 
wont be able to deny you coverage 
or jack up your rate because of a preexisting condition. This caveat will 
be Obamacares undoing.
Because of this promise, one that 
Obamacare will actually keep, there 
are only four factors that can change 
the price that one pays for insurance 
in the individual market: your age, 
the state that you live in, whether or 
not you smoke cigarettes, and how 
comprehensive you want your coverage to be. 
Because of this caveat, if you 
dont have health insurance and you 
get cancer, you can sign up for health 
insurance. Not only will insurance 
companies have to take you, theyll 
have to charge you the same rate as if 
you didnt have cancer, even though 
you are de?nitely going to cost a lot 
more as a patient.
Since the Supreme Court brilliantly, and subtly, limited the power 
of the government, its still legal for 
me to not purchase health insurance. 
If I opt to remain uninsured, which I 
will, I pay a ?ne of $695 every year. 
This is much less than I will pay for 
health care coverage in a year if I 
dont get any subsidies, which I aspire to not be eligible for. If I get 
cancer, Ill simply sign up for health 
insurance.
To their credit, the laws designers arent stupid, and they looked 
ahead and foresaw people like me. 
To safeguard against these people, 
Obamacare architects created what 
is called an open enrollment period, 
which lasts until March 31, 2014. 
If you want insurance for 2014, 
you need to sign up by then. That 
means that people looking to game 
the system, like me, are out of luck 
if we get hit by a bus on April 1. We 
have to wait until Jan. 1, 2015 until 
our coverage starts, leaving us with 
nine long months of out-of-pocket 
expenses that will bankrupt us.
Not so fast, Obamacare. Another 
provision of the law says that I can 
stay on my parents insurance until 
Im 26, provided my family gets a 
new insurance policy after Obamacare caused us to lose our plan. If I 
start working right after school, that 
leaves me with four years of being 
happily insured without a cent of 
out-of-pocket costs to me while Im 
earning income.
Unfortunately for Obamacare, my 
grace period of earnings and savings, 
combined with guaranteed issue of 
insurance at a reasonable rate, destroys my incentive to buy insurance. 
Even though its possible that 
I might be struck with some catastrophic and costly illness immediately after enrollment ends, Im 
con?dent enough that this wont 
happen, or if it does, that Ill be able 
to take on the costs personally until 
insurance kicks in. Unfortunately for 
the acts supporters, I think I will win 
against Obamacare. 
Even worse for its supporters, 
Obamacare needs me  far more 
than I need it. Obamacare is designed to get people like me to pay 
for insurance that they dont need 
and wont use, so that they will pay 
more into the system than they cost 
the system. This surplus will then be 
used to pay for the cost of others who 
pay less than what they get out of the 
system. 
Under Obamacare, I would be 
required to purchase the bene?ts 
of maternity care, pre-natal care, 
prescription drug bene?ts, and substance abuse care. 
I anticipate needing none of 
these. Obamacare makes me buy 
these services that Im unlikely to 
need so that I will pay more into the 
system and subsidize old people and 
poor people who are effectively winning under this system.
If people like me dont buy into 
this gross redistribution scheme, 
however, Obamacare will be overrun 
with sick people who pay less than 
the bene?ts they receive and will 
depend on people like me to cover 
their costs. If we dont buy into this 
system  which I certainly wont, 
because its not in my interest  then 
Obamacare will fail and insurers will 
go out of business because they will 
cover more sick people than they can 
afford to cover.
I will break Obamacare. I wont 
do this because Im cruel or cynical. 
Thats just whats honestly in my best 
interest.
Kyle Henson (kahenson@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
Obamacare will be easily broken
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor

---------------------------------------------------

Robert E. Doherty 
1936  1950Thomas S. Baker
1922  1935
John Christian Warner
1950  1965
H. Guyford Stever
1965  1972
Arthur A. Hamerschlag
1903  1922Richard M. Cyert
1972  1990
Robert Mehrabian
1990  1997Jared L. Cohon
1997  2013
PAST PRESIDENTS
JOIN THE CELEBRATION
NOVEMBER 14  15
www.cmu.edu/suresh-inauguration
#CMUsuresh
THE INAUGURATION OF 
DR. SUBRA SURESH 
AS THE NINTH PRESIDENT OF 
CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY

---------------------------------------------------

November 11, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A9
WILLIAM PARK
Sports Editor
With the NFL season more 
than halfway over, it can so 
far be de?ned as one of surprises. Here are the biggest 
surprise teams.
Kansas City Chiefs
After holding the worst 
record last season, the Chiefs, 
at 90, currently hold the best 
record in the NFL. While their 
success may be attributed to 
the steady hand of quarterback Alex Smith, the Chiefs 
main strength has been their 
defense.
Defensive tackle Tamba 
Hali and outside linebacker 
Justin Houston, with 9 and 
11 sacks respectively, have 
led the Kansas City defense 
that allows a league-best 
12.3 points per game. With 
two games remaining against 
the formidable Denver Broncos led by Peyton Manning, 
the second half of the Chiefs 
schedule will show whether 
the Chiefs are legitimate contenders.
But with an offense that 
is overly reliant on running 
back Jamaal Charles, it is 
dif?cult to predict whether 
the Chiefs can score enough 
points to win against more 
offensively potent teams.
New York Giants
The 2012 Super Bowl winners got off to a terrible start, 
losing their ?rst six games in 
ugly fashion. Quarterback Eli 
Manning caught the interception bug, with 15 for the 
season, and has a pedestrian 
55.7 completion percentage.
Not all of the blame falls 
on Manning, however. His offensive line has been shaky, 
and the running game has 
been very weak. Wide receiver Hakeem Nicks has also 
dropped too many passes.
On the defensive side, the 
former strength of the team 
has weakened. Defensive 
lineman Jason Pierre-Paul 
has only one sack, while captain Justin Tuck only has 1.5.
The offensive line needs 
retooling, but more importantly, if key contributors 
cant rediscover their game, 
the Giants will be in serious 
trouble.
New York Jets
Before the season, ESPN 
predicted the Jets to be the 
worst team in the league. But 
with a 54 record and victories against the New England 
Patriots and New Orleans 
Saints, the Jets look like playoff contenders.
Defensive end Muhammad Wilkerson and tackle 
Damon Harrison have teamed 
up with rookie Sheldon Richardson to lead a formidable 
defensive front line that is 
consistent in stuf?ng opponents rushing attack.
The Jets have very few offensive playmakers, which 
makes their mediocre offensive production actually seem 
quite impressive. Running 
back Chris Ivory has emerged 
as the leading workhorse, 
while rookie quarterback 
Geno Smith is slowly cutting 
down on his turnover rate.
With a strong defense 
and an offense that does just 
enough, the Jets can sneak 
into the playoffs.
Pittsburgh Steelers
The Steelers have long 
been known as a team with 
a suffocating defense and a 
power running attack.
This year, however, their 
defense has allowed 131.3 
rushing yards per game, 
which is second worst in the 
league. Their own rushing 
attack hasnt been much better, averaging a meager 73.6 
yards per game.
Safety Troy Polamalu has 
been a step slower this season, and nobody has stepped 
up as the defensive leader. 
Quarterback Ben Roethlisberger has been under constant pressure and has no 
one to throw to, with the exception of receiver Antonio 
Brown.
After years of dominating 
the AFC North, the Steelers 
are on the decline.
Cleveland Browns
After trading away former 
?rst-round pick Trent Richardson, the Browns were expected to tank.
Instead, they are 45, 
with impressive wins against 
the Cincinnati Bengals and 
Baltimore Ravens, and just 
one game out of the second 
wild card spot.
On defense, they have 
quality starters in the secondary, linebackers, and defensive line positions.
They have offensive playmakers in tight end Jordan 
Cameron and wide receiver 
Josh Gordon, but have no 
one to throw to them. The 
Browns have had three different starting quarterbacks 
who have all had varying levels of success.
The Browns wont make 
the playoffs this season, but 
have proven they are no longer the laughing stock of the 
league. A decent quarterback 
can take them to the next 
level.
Atlanta Falcons
Quarterback Matt Ryan 
signed a $103.75 million contract extension in the off-season after leading the Falcons 
to the NFC Championships 
last year.
While he is on pace to 
throw 20 interceptions this 
year, the numbers dont tell 
the entire story. Ryan lost his 
favorite receiver Julio Jones 
to a season-ending injury in 
week ?ve and has a porous 
offensive line in front of him.
With no rushing attack, 
the Atlanta offense is too 
dependent on their passing 
game. Running back Steven 
Jackson has been beset by injuries as well as wide receiver 
Roddy White.
They can still score points, 
but opposing teams have 
scored more on their weak 
defense, which allows 27.3 
points per game.
The Falcons are out of the 
playoff picture this season 
and will be so for the foreseeable future unless they can 
revamp their defense and 
offensive line.
SPORTS COMMENTARYSoccer teams ?nish conference play
Volleyball team ?nishes third in UAA
The most surprising teams in the NFL
File photo by Maryyann Landlord/Staff Photographer
Junior mid?elder Colin Shaffer had one shot against Emory. The team 
outshot Emory 29-12.
File photo by Jason Chen/Staff Photographer
The womens volleyball team ?nished the regular season with a 259 record. At third place in the UAA Conference, the team has a good chance of earning an at-large bid into the NCAA tournament.
WILLIAM PARK
Sports Editor
The womens volleyball 
team had had enough.
Over the previous three 
seasons, the Tartans were 05 
against Washington University in St. Louis, their opponent in Saturdays third-place 
game of the University Athletic Association (UAA) Championships.
Wash. U. is our biggest rival and always has been, said 
senior and team co-captain Ali 
Nichols. Saturday morning, 
all the seniors got together 
and realized how awesome it 
would be to ?nally beat Wash. 
U.
Leading the game 21 and 
up 2423 in the fourth set, 
Washington University appeared on the verge of another win over the Tartans.
Washington had the opportunity to win the game and 
instead committed a service 
error. A kill by senior outside 
hitter Senna Parsa and another Washington error allowed 
the Tartans to take the pivotal 
fourth set.
When it came down to it, 
our consistency and  more 
than anything  our drive to 
win were the reasons we were 
able to take the fourth set, 
Nichols said.
The Tartans carried their 
momentum into the ?fth set, 
which they won 159 to take 
the game 32 and secured a 
third-place in the UAA Championships.
The victory was spearheaded by junior and co-captain 
Ali Celentanos 18 kills and 
Parsas 14 kills.
Washington University 
wasnt the only rival the Tartans had to beat.
The Tartans opened the 
tournament against New York 
University, who had earlier 
defeated Carnegie Mellon in 
straight sets in the second 
UAA round robin.
Coming into the tournament, the Tartans were also 
tied with New York University 
for fourth place in the UAA 
Conference.
Going into the season, we 
knew we had to beat NYU for 
a shot at going to the NCAA 
tournament, Nichols said. 
That was looming over our 
heads the past month during 
practice, and we have worked 
a lot harder to speci?cally beat 
NYU.
On Friday against NYU, 
the Tartans dropped the ?rst 
set 1925 and came back to 
win the second set 2520 and 
a tough third set 3129. The 
Tartans won the fourth set at a 
comfortable margin of 2518 
to advance to the next round.
A 30 loss against the University of Chicago set them up 
to play No. 8 Wash. U. for third 
place.
The Tartans ?nished the 
regular season with a 259 record, an impressive improvement over their 1222 record 
from three seasons ago.
More than that, the Tartans 
have a good chance of earning 
an at-large bid into the NCAA 
tournament. Their last NCAA 
bid was in 2008.
With a strong UAA Conference record, the Tartans 
believe they have played well 
enough to deserve a bid. I really think we have. Hopefully, 
that win over Wash. U. guarantees us a spot, Nichols said.
The senior class, which include Nichols, Parsa, outside 
hitter Mary Stadelman, and 
outside hitter Rachel Miller, 
has played a major role in rebuilding Carnegie Mellons 
volleyball program.
Regardless of whether the 
volleyball team will play in the 
NCAA tournament, the future 
is bright. First-year middle 
blockers Jackie Gibbons and 
Casey Salandra and ?rst-year 
opposite hitter and setter Emily Newton have all emerged 
as consistent starters.
The freshmen that we 
have this year are really 
strong, and I really see the 
program taking off from 
here, Nichols said.
WILLIAM PARK
Sports Editor
In their ?nal regular season games, both the mens 
and womens soccer teams 
found disappointment in Atlanta, Ga.
The mens team drew 00 
in double overtime against 
Emory University, and the 
womens side lost 30.
A win would have guaranteed the mens side at least a 
?rst-place tie in the University 
Athletic Association (UAA) 
Conference. Instead, they ?nish tied with Emory for second 
place.
Were pretty disappointed, senior defender Ben Bryant said. Since our ?rst UAA 
game, we went undefeated in 
UAA. I think we deserved a 
share of the title.
The mens team was inches 
away from a win. In the last 
minute of the second overtime, senior forward Chris 
Wysockis shot de?ected off 
a defender and bounced to 
senior forward Max Tassano 
at the top of the penalty box.
Tassano turned past the defender and got a shot on a goal 
that bounced off the crossbar. 
There were four seconds left 
in the game.
Sophomore mid?elder 
Connor Webb delivered a 
standout performance, coming off the bench and using 
creative touches to get past 
defenders and generate scoring chances.
It came down to some bad 
luck, and we need to work on 
our ?nishing a little bit, Bryant said.
Having lost to Emory in 
the quarter?nals of the NCAA 
tournament last year on penalty kicks, the womens team 
had hoped to get revenge on 
Emorys Senior Day.
Its always hard to play on 
someone elses ?eld, but its 
even more dif?cult when its 
their Senior Day, graduate 
student goalkeeper Anna Albi 
said.
The Tartans had two 
opportunities to score ?rst. 
Senior forward Alex Venegas 
had a shot on goal saved in the 
fourth minute, and senior defender Rachel Contopoulos hit 
the post in the 17th minute.
After the two early chances, Emory controlled the rest 
of the game.
Emory scored ?rst in the 
20th minute and did not stop 
the pressure. They scored two 
more goals in the second half 
and outshot the Tartans 27-6.
Theyre a really great 
team, and they were excited 
for their seniors. It was hard to 
overcome their skill plus their 
emotions, Albi said.
The road loss continues the 
teams struggles on the road. 
In the four road UAA games, 
they are 13.
We have a very hard travel 
schedule.... Its kind of hard 
mentally and physically to 
balance Carnegie Mellon academics on the road. I think it 
just gets the better of us sometimes, Albi said.
The loss ends their season 
with 331 conference record, good for fourth place in 
the UAA.
Both the mens and womens team will ?nd out today 
if they will be playing in the 
NCAA tournament.

---------------------------------------------------

A10  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  November 11, 2013
SPORTS COMMENTARYDavid Price headlines short list of MLB off-season targets
UAA Sports Standings
Mens Soccer
Univ.Conf.WLT
Rochester5111322
CMU4121123
Emory4121152
Wash. U. 3221043
Brandeis3311441
Chicago340962
CWRU151674
NYU061683
Football
Univ.Conf.WL
Wash. U2072
Chicago1163
CWRU1144
CMU0236
Volleyball
Univ.Conf.WL
Chicago612610
Emory 52304
CMU43259
Wash. U.61267
NYU43277
CWRU251617
Rochester07927
Brandeis161025
Womens Soccer
Univ.ConfWLT
Wash. U.7001710
Emory6101431
Chicago3221143
CMU331942
Brandeis2321062
Rochester133665
NYU052892
CWRU052783
Upcoming Schedule
Football
Nov. 16
Case Western Reserve 
University at Carnegie Mellon, 
6 p.m.
Cross Country 
Nov. 16
NCAA Regionals, Muhlenberg College, 11 a.m.
Nov. 23
NCAA Championships, 
Hanover College, 11 a.m.
Swimming/Diving 
Nov. 16
Tri Meet with Washington 
and Lee University and 
Allegheny College at Carnegie 
Mellon, 11:30 a.m.
Nov. 22 
Carnegie Mellon Diving 
Invite, 6 p.m.
Womens Basketball
Nov. 15 
Geneva College at 
Carnegie Mellon, 6 p.m.
Nov. 16 
Franciscan University at 
Carnegie Mellon, 1 p.m.
Nov. 19 
Carnegie Mellon at Grove 
City College, 6 p.m.
Mens Basketball
Nov. 18 
Geneva College at 
Carnegie Mellon, 7:30 p.m.
Nov. 23 
University of PittsburghGreensburg at Carnegie Mellon, 3 p.m.
FEATURE PHOTOSCarnegie Mellon Ultimate teams host Steel City Showdown 
Jonathan Leung/Assistant Photo Editor
The Carnegie Mellon mens Ultimate team Mr. Yuk hosted an exhibition game between the University of Pittsburgh and Penn State University on Friday night in Gesling Stadium. The game preceeded the two-day tournament 
that took place on Saturday at the CONSOL Energy Sports Complex in North Huntingdon, Pa. Mr. Yuk ?nished 03 in the tournament, which the University of Cincinnati eventually won. Money Mellons, Carnegie Mellons 
womens team, ?nished second in the womens side. 
CARL GLAZER
Senior Staffwriter
Baseball is a unique sport 
because of its ridiculously 
long season. With the season 
lasting from the end of March 
through the end of October, 
there isnt much time for a true 
off-season. Add in the beginning of spring training in late 
February, and there are only 
three months for all of the offseason player movement, in 
the form of both free agency 
and trades.
With the winter meetings, 
where all of the MLB teams 
meet to discuss changes to the 
rules, less than a month away, 
free agency is about to kick 
into high gear. Since all of the 
general managers are in one 
place, most of the major offseason trades happen during 
the meetings, but that doesnt 
mean teams arent already 
planning their major moves.
The most talented name 
in this years trade market is 
Tampa Bays ace David Price. 
The Rays have a long history 
of trading away their talented 
pitchers before they hit free 
agency. The Rays have always 
had a low budget and have 
had to be selective in whom 
they can sign to expensive, 
long-term contracts.
In the last off-season, the 
Rays traded James Shields to 
the Kansas City Royals for toplevel prospect Wil Myers. The 
season before, Matt Garza was 
traded to the Chicago Cubs for 
top pitching prospect Chris 
Archer and a host of other less 
promising young players.
Now it is Prices turn to 
bring the Rays back a bounty 
of young players to reload 
their minor league system and 
to allow them to continue contending with cheaper players 
on their small budget. 
Current rumors have 
named the Texas Rangers, St. 
Louis Cardinals, Los Angeles 
Dodgers, and Los Angeles Angels as possible trade destinations, but another team may 
come from out of the blue 
with a better offer. Regardless 
of the destination, expect the 
Rays to move Price before the 
off-season ends.
The other major piece of 
the off-season is free agency. 
MLB changed the rules governing the complicated free 
agent process before last offseason, and their effects can 
already be seen, most notably 
in the Milwaukee Brewers 
signing of Kyle Lohse. To help 
keep players with the team 
that drafted them, teams that 
lose top-level players in free 
agency now gain a compensatory draft pick between the 
?rst and second rounds in the 
MLB draft.
On the other hand, the 
team signing another teams 
free agent will forfeit their 
?rst-round pick unless its 
a top 10 pick, in which case 
they forfeit their second round 
pick. That forfeited pick disappears and all teams behind 
that draft slot move up.
In order for a player to 
qualify for this compensatory 
system, two criteria must be 
met. First, his current team 
must make the player a qualifying offer. This offer must, at 
a one-year contracts worth, be 
at least the average yearly salary of the top 125 free agents 
from the previous off-season, 
which is around $14 million 
this year. 
Second, the free-agent-tobe must have been with the 
current team for at least one 
full season. The purpose of 
this clause is to prevent teams 
from acquiring a player in the 
last year of his contract at the 
July 31 trade deadline, and 
then receiving compensation 
when he leaves two months 
later.
This year, 13 players were 
given qualifying offers. Two of 
them, pitchers Ervin Santana 
and Ubaldo Jimnez, are eerily similar to Lohse in terms of 
recent performance. The only 
major difference is age, with 
Lohse entering the free agent 
market at 34 and Jimnez 
and Santana being 30 and 31, 
respectively.
There is another band of 
power hitting free agents who 
carry their own risks, but are 
still likely to receive great offers given the absence of available sluggers on the market. 
Veteran out?elder Carlos Beltrn played lights out for the 
St. Louis Cardinals in the post 
season, but health concerns 
and his advancing age have 
given many teams doubt about 
his potential. 
Nelson Cruz was having a 
great year for the Texas Rangers before he got caught up 
in the biogenesis scandal and 
was suspended for the last 50 
games of the season for human growth hormone usage. 
Kendrys Morales and Mike 
Napoli are both defensive liabilities and would be best 
suited as designated hitters, 
but could be used as ?rst baseman in a pinch.
Shortstop Stephen Drew is 
the position player most likely 
to feel the pain of the qualifying offer with his terrible offensive performance during 
the Red Sox postseason run. 
His agent, Scott Boras, has a 
history of not accepting the 
one-year qualifying offer out 
of principle, and thus, Drew 
could be left high and dry with 
few suitors.
Boras also represents the 
two center?elders that represent the top of this years free 
agent class, Jacoby Ellsbury 
and Shin-Soo Choo. 
It may take a while for either of these players to sign, 
but that will not be due to lack 
of interest. Boras is notorious for holding out and playing teams against each other. 
Some speculate that Boras 
will make sure Choo signs 
?rst, and later demand that 
Ellsbury receive an offer more 
lucrative than the one Choo 
receives.
While this may not be the 
most exciting free agent or 
trade market class, there will 
still be plenty of story lines as 
teams try to get the most bang 
for their buck.

---------------------------------------------------

James Wolpert 
The former Carnegie Mellon student and 
The Voice contestant rises to the top  B8
11.11.13 Volume 108, Issue 11
Timeflies 
and
Chiddy 
Bang 
B5

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Check out this weeks comics and try not to 
laugh too hard.
11
Dollar Movie
AB Films presents fun movies in McConomy 
Auditorium to lighten your dark soul.
7
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2013 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Jennifer Coloma EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Josh Smith
PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Joey Peiser 
COMICS EDITOR Kairavi Chahal PHOTO EDITOR Kate Groschner 
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Kelsey Erin Scott
5
48
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about Subra 
Suresh and completing your major.
3
...diversions
...this week only
Angel Haze
The talented rappers 30 Gold project yields 
impressive fruit.
3
Sarah Kay
The spoken word poet and Project V.O.I.C.E. 
founder comes to Carnegie Mellon.
4
Fall concert
Timeflies and Chiddy Bang headline this years 
fall concert in Wiegand Gymnasium.
5
Black?sh
The buzzed-about documentary presents a 
stirring case on a fishy subject.
6
Net?ix
Marvel comics has teamed with Netflix to 
produce a slew of new and original content.
7
James Wolpert
The former Carnegie Mellon student sits down 
to talk about his experience on The Voice.
8
PSO
The orchestra put on a standard and wellexecuted performance.
10
Puzzles
Save them for after your homework when you 
can afford the mental exhaustion.
13
Horoscopes
Check to see if the universe really is out to get 
you this week.
14
Calendar
Friends dont let friends not know where to get 
their arts and culture fix.
15

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 11.11.133
Wilson starts freestyle project 
30 Gold project sees rapper trying out new styles 
New York rapper and noisemaker Raykeea Angel 
Wilson, better known as Angel Haze, has been 
releasing a slew of new material as part of her 30 
Gold project. 
The Detroit native, often compared to fellow female 
up-and-comer Azealia Banks  with whom Haze 
has had an extensive Twitter altercation  will 
release a new freestyle rap roughly every day for 
30 days. So far, the project has yielded some of the 
greatest hip-hop released this year, commercial 
or otherwise. All material can be found on Angel 
Hazes SoundCloud account, https://soundcloud.
com/angelhazeym.
Wilson is one of the fiercest wordsmiths in hip-hop 
music today. An open pansexual and outspoken 
victim of sexual abuse, she first gained widespread 
attention with her 2012 track Cleaning Out My 
Closet, a song that borrowed the Eminem beat of 
the same name and turned it into an exorcism of 
her own childhood demons. The song, which details 
the sexual abuse she endured during her childhood 
and the extensive emotional scarring it caused, is 
impossible to listen to without wincing.
The material released thus far ranges from freestyles 
over some of the biggest hip-hop beats of the year 
to a soft acoustic cover of Miley Cyruss Wrecking 
Ball. The sheer range of styles that Wilson has 
explored over the course of this project is a 
testament to her great talent and a sign of what we 
can expect from this fantastic artist.
In addition to her engaging lyrical content, Wilson 
has high technical skill. Her flow on Kendrick 
Lamars Backseat Freestyle never misses a step 
and exhibits a kind of energy not usually heard from 
hip-hops ruling class. 
When she revisits one of her own songs on the snapand-clap-filled New York Remix, her rapid-fire 
delivery gives boasts like 313 but I run New York 
 the kind of credence not often felt in rap music.
Of all the music released as part of the 30 Gold 
project, the best instance is her take on the 
Macklemore and Ryan Lewis hit Same Love. While 
the original song shows Macklemore, a straight 
white male, trying to identify with the gay rights 
cause and rally his listeners to join the cause, 
Wilsons is so powerful because it comes from 
someone who actually has a stake in the fight. 
She opens the song with the story of coming out to 
her mother at age 13 and being told, Youll burn in 
hell or probably die of AIDS, and closes it with the 
declaration that, despite orientation, We all feel the 
same love. Its an incredibly moving song, and one 
that could only be written by someone who is on the 
receiving end of societal inequality.
The 30 Gold project, if nothing else, proves that 
Angel Haze is one of the most gifted chameleons 
in hip-hop today. Check https://soundcloud.com/
angelhazeym for all of her 30 Gold releases, as well 
as the rest of her music.
Joey Peiser | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
Advice for awkward people
Hey Ryan & Matt,
Ive been getting all these 
spam emails about some 
important faculty member 
getting appointed to all 
these national academic 
committees. I got one 
a few weeks ago about 
his appointment to the 
Institute of Medicine. Big 
deal  so the guy is a 
doctor. Why does all of 
Carnegie Mellon need to 
know about every award 
he collects?
Sincerely,
I Loathe Loading Mail 
About Nobodies, Need 
Education Regarding 
Elected Despots
Well ILL-MANNERED,
The individual collecting all of 
these awards is none other 
than Carnegie Mellons new 
president, Subra Suresh. As 
we read from his Wikipedia 
page, he is one of only 
16 Americans  and the 
only current president of a 
university to be a member 
of the big three national 
academies: the Institute 
of Medicine, the National 
Academy of Sciences, 
and the National Academy 
of Engineering. If you are 
interested in learning more 
about this man, we hear his 
inauguration has scheduled 
a campus-wide celebration 
for this Thursday, with an 
invite-only dinner to follow at 
the Omni William Penn Hotel 
in Downtown. If you crash, 
youll find out exactly what 
his policy regarding pesky 
students entails.
Bring us back some 
punch,
Matt & Ryan
Dear Matt & Ryan,
Im a senior, hoping to 
graduate this spring. 
Unfortunately, there 
is one class that I just 
cannot seem to pass for 
the life of me. Ive taken 
it every semester, and 
every time the final comes 
around I totally bomb it. I 
only go to, like, one of the 
classes anyway but I pass 
all the quizzes! I just dont 
understand whats going 
on. This is the last class I 
need to pass to graduate!
Sincerely,
Cursing A Terrible Class, 
Missing InconsequentialSeeming Marks, Yet 
Bound And Needing End
Dear CATCMISMYBANE,
Dude. Come on. Youve 
got this. If the class is really 
all based on one final test, 
then just study like hell the 
day before. And if youve 
really taken this class every 
year, you should have this in 
the bag! Our guess is that 
youre either not putting 
forth the effort required, or 
you secretly want to stay 
here another year. Or two. 
Or indefinitely. But if you 
want to get out of here then 
knuckle under and do it. Or 
make a portal to a different 
dimension where you 
dont need this one class 
to graduate. But then you 
might cause catastrophic 
results throughout the 
multiverse, so be careful. 
Also, you should double 
check if your credits will 
transfer.
Worst-case scenario, 
escape to Canada,
Ryan & Matt
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About inaugurations and that pesky last class
Rapper Angel Haze has been releasing a steady 
stream of new material as part of her 30 Gold 
project.
Courtesy of Murakami_Reader via Flickr
The 30 Gold project shows Angel Hazes 
willingness to experiment.

---------------------------------------------------

4poetry
pillbox 11.11.13
A large crowd gathered in McConomy Auditorium last 
Tuesday afternoon to listen to spoken word poet and 
Project V.O.I.C.E. founder Sarah Kay. Kays performance 
of spoken verse rhythmic poetry was both personal 
and universal, focusing on themes of love, family, and 
learning.
Taking us on a journey of her own life, she began with 
her childhood family vacations and her little brother, 
before diving into ?rst loves, long-distance relationships, 
mothers, and feminism, ending with a poem dedicated 
to teachers.
She captured a world of love and lost souls, full of both 
romantic lust and the cold truth of reality. That said, 
there was no trace of a Shakespearean imagined reality; 
rather, there were clear references to the modern world, 
where planes and phones connect people better than 
ever. An expert in crafting imagery, Kay created an 
environment that seemed ?uid and full of emotional 
angst, yet also intricately detailed with speci?c imagery: 
The years have spread us like dandelion seeds, 
and Cell phones that buzz as if its your hand. Her 
performance was one of well-rehearsed spontaneity, 
complete with symbolic gestures and dramatic pauses 
that, rather than coming off as over the top and silly, felt 
like genuine re?ections of her words.
In between poems, Kay caught her breath and became a 
real person again, with anecdotal remarks and stories 
that complemented her composed poetry. She seemed 
eager to connect with the crowd, asking questions to 
feel out her audience and bring up the energy.
Kay also referred to the work she does in addition to 
being a writer and performer. As founder of Project 
V.O.I.C.E., Kay works in schools nationally and 
internationally to teach poetry workshops to elementary 
and middle school students. She shared a story of using 
an analogy of pooping to communicate to middle school 
students that the hardest part about writing poetry is 
being able to both push through frustrations and be 
ready when inspiration strikes.
She also referred to the vast range of experiences shes 
had even as a young woman in her 20s, from teaching 
in India to traveling in Nepal. These references added 
immensely to her work, expanding her sources of 
inspiration and helping her avoid clich.
Part poet, part performer, part storyteller, and full 
comedian, Kay and her ability to bring life to words 
earned a standing ovation from enthralled Carnegie 
Mellon students. Her ability to articulate the struggles 
of growing up, being a woman, and ?guring out what 
love is  offset by her no-fuss humor and attitude  
connected with an audience struggling with many of the 
same issues. Perhaps most importantly, her candid chat 
with the audience prevented a common pitfall of poetry 
 the feeling as if the poet is attempting to leave us 
confused or mesmerized.
Kays ?rst collection of poetry will be published in March. 
To learn more about Sarah Kay and Project V.O.I.C.E., 
visit kaysarahsera.com.
Sarah Moss-Horwitz | Junior Staffwriter
Michelle Wan | Junior Photographer
Spoken word poet makes her voice heard
Sarah Kay performs to an enthusiastic audience of Carnegie Mellon students
Spoken word poet and Project V.O.I.C.E founder 
Sarah Kay performed for a large crowd in McConomy 
Auditorium.
Michelle Wan | Junior Photographer
Michelle Wan | Junior Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 11.11.135
Fall concert rocks Wiegand Gymnasium
Time?ies and Chiddy Bang headline an energetic night of pop-rap hits
Pop/rap duo Time?ies and Philadelphia rapper Chiddy 
Bang gave rousing performances at Carnegie Mellons 
Wiegand Gymnasium for this years fall concert. 
Time?ies is known for catchy beats, quick rap verses, 
and freestyles, along with its widely followed Time?ies 
Tuesdays YouTube videos, and is currently on tour to 
promote the duos latest EP, Warning Signs.
The concert kicked off at 7 p.m. with an opening 
performance by junior mechanical engineering major 
Gianfranco Colombi and sophomore mechanical 
engineering major Bernardo Campos Almendrez, who 
played mixes of various electropop and EDM hits for the 
crowd that was pouring in.
After the half-hour-long opening performance, Chiddy 
Bang came on, much to the excitement of the crowd. 
Rapper Chidera Chiddy Anamege and former Chiddy 
Bang member Noah Xaphoon Jones Beresin are 
known for their clever usage of samples from artists 
such as MGMT and Ellie Goulding in their songs. They 
engaged the crowd throughout their set and received an 
enthusiastic reaction when they asked the audience if 
they were having a good time. They gave an extremely 
energetic performance in which they played many 
of their well-known hits such as Ray Charles, Bad 
Day, Talking to Myself, Handclaps and Guitars, 
Breakfast, and All Things Go.
Chiddy Bang closed off the performance with hit singles 
Opposite of Adults  which featured a sample from 
MGMTs Kids  and Mind Your Manners, for which 
the rapper collaborated with Swedish duo Icona Pop. The 
crowd contained many people who were familiar with 
their music, but people who were introduced to their 
music in this concert also seemed to enjoy themselves. 
Their set lasted around 45 minutes, after which 
they were followed by Time?iess highly anticipated 
performance.
Time?ies performed many of their smash hits, including 
a crowd-pleasing performance of Turn It Up and fast 
renditions of Lose My Mind, Detonate, I Believe, 
Ride, and Swoon. Their performance had the 
audience screaming and clamoring for more.
Time?ies was extremely engaging and interactive with 
the crowd for the entirety of their performance. The duo 
had the crowd singing along, jumping up and down, and 
waving their hands for every song. The crowd was more 
than happy to dance along with them.
The highlight of their set, amongst many other stellar 
performances, was their Time?ies Tuesdays-style, 
Carnegie Mellon-themed freestyle rap. Much to the 
crowds delight, lead vocalist Cal Shapiro rapped about 
all things quintessentially Carnegie Mellon, including the 
Walking to the Sky statue, brunch at Pamelas Diner, 
and 15-251. This particular performance had Carnegie 
Mellon students talking long after the performance was 
over.
Time?ies closed their set with their hit single I Choose 
U, which had the crowd jumping and screaming the 
words of their song. After this performance, the duo 
walked offstage, but the crowd immediately started 
yelling for an encore. Time?ies was more than willing 
to oblige, as they came back on to perform a rousing 
rendition of yet another hit.
The audience for the concert also contained a large 
number of students from the University of Pittsburgh, 
who also appeared excited about seeing big names like 
Time?ies and Chiddy Bang come to Pittsburgh. All in 
all, it was a successful concert, with exciting visual and 
lighting effects headed by two excellent artists.
Nandini Ramakrishnan | Junior Staffwriter
Kelsey Erin Scott | Operations Manager
Timeflies energized the crowd at its headlining 
concert in Wiegand Gym last Friday. 
Left: Junior Gianfranco Colombi (left) and sophomore            Center: Pop-rap duo Timeflies peformed a number of crowd          Right: Rap group Chiddy Bang performed many of their hits, 
        Bernardo Campos Almendrez (right) opened the night              pleasers as well as an exclusive Carnegie Mellon-themed            including Opposite of Adults and Mind Your Manners.      
        with a selection of EDM hits.                                                   freestyle. 
 
Jonathan Leung | Assistant Photo EditorKelsey Erin Scott | Operations ManagerJonathan Leung | Assistant Photo Editor

---------------------------------------------------

6film
pillbox 11.11.13
Millions of people visit SeaWorld every day without 
thinking about the lives of the animals behind the 
scenes. Why would they worry? SeaWorld does 
everything it can to convince the general public that the 
animals in its parks are happy and well-cared for. If that 
were true, however, why would Tilikum, a 12,000-pound 
killer whale, brutally attack and kill Dawn Brancheau, 
the head trainer at SeaWorld Orlando? The documentary 
Black?sh was created precisely because director 
Gabriela Cowperthwaite asked herself this question after 
hearing of Brancheaus death.
Black?sh, which recently began screening in the U.S., 
relates the history of killer whale captivity, using this 
backstory to lead up to and explain Tilikums attack 
on Brancheau. In a story with CNN, Cowperthwaite 
said she started her investigation into the issue not as 
an anti-captivity activist, but as a mother (who had 
just taken her kids to SeaWorld) and as a documentary 
?lmmaker.
The ?lm starts by explaining how killer whales were 
rounded up from the wild  the young ones separated 
from their families  and taken to parks to perform. 
One of the men who helped to round up young Tilikum 
speaks in the documentary, saying that because of 
the whales reactions, it was the worst thing Ive ever 
done. Until this point of the ?lm, it might seem that the 
people protesting killer whale captivity are overreacting, 
and the whales at SeaWorld are happy. However, the 
footage of the young whale in the net crying out to his 
family is devastating enough to make viewers question 
their views and reach for a tissue.
The story only gets worse as the ?lm continues, following 
Tilikum from Sealand of the Paci?c  a subpar version 
of SeaWorld in British Columbia, Canada, which had to 
be shut down after Tilikums ?rst attack on a trainer  to 
his current home in SeaWorld Orlando. Cowperthwaite 
uses similar ?rst-hand sources to dig into the dark past 
and present truths of the industry. Testimonies from 
eyewitnesses of Tilikums ?rst attack, relatives of people 
who have been attacked by killer whales in other theme 
parks, and people who previously worked as trainers at 
SeaWorld itself add credibility to the ?lm and make it 
hard to argue with its claims.
Experts who have researched killer whales for years say 
that the animals have no history of attacking humans in 
the wild, but the ?lm presents raw footage of trainer after 
trainer being attacked by whales. As a result, its hard to 
argue that the attacks were not caused by frustrated and 
psychologically unstable whales.
Black?sh presents the whales as extremely intelligent 
and emotionally complex creatures whose lives are 
centered on social interactions with their families. It 
reiterates that these are not dumb brutes forced to 
perform for an audiences momentary pleasure and 
an industrys hungry bank account; these animals are 
mentally and emotionally equivalent to humans and 
completely conscious of what is happening to them. 
By the time the ?lm shows footage of mother whales 
separated from their calves in the parks because they 
werent performing well together, viewers are ready to 
?y to Orlando and free the whales themselves. Black?sh 
is effective in eliciting an emotional response from the 
audience because it juxtaposes humanizing facts about 
whales with the awful circumstances they face every 
day.
The ?lm has already elicited a vivid response from 
audiences. According to an article on digitaljournal.com, 
SeaWorld has been battered by public response to the 
documentary. Celebrities such as Stephen Fry, Olivia 
Wilde, and Ewan McGregor have tweeted endorsements 
for the ?lm and joined a website called backblack?sh.
com. The SeaWorld San Diego Facebook page was 
forced to disable comments, and many concerned 
viewers have called and written letters to SeaWorld to 
express their disgust. Even Pixar has caught wind of the 
controversy surrounding the ?lm and altered the ending 
to the upcoming Finding Dory in response, according to 
The Huf?ngton Post.
While the general public certainly has not been shy 
about voicing its opinion on the subject, SeaWorld 
has been anything but vocal. SeaWorld declined to be 
interviewed for the original documentary or appear on 
CNN since it aired and issued only a brief statement 
about the ?lm, calling it one-sided and unfair.
According to a recent article on marketwatch.com of 
The Wall Street Journal, SeaWorlds stock has dropped 25 
percent since the release of the ?lm and sales are down 
by $4 million since June (months before the ?lm was 
aired on CNN). In addition, ticket prices have recently 
decreased, though the park insists the change has 
nothing to do with public response to Black?sh.
To learn more about the documentary, visit 
www.black?shmovie.com.
Jenna Bodnar | Junior Staffwriter
Documentary delves deep into killer whale captivity 
Black?sh depicts the harsh lives of SeaWorld performers after the show is over
Photo courtesy of Wikimedia Commons 
The documentary Blackfish skillfully investigates the 
devastating realities of killer whale captivity. 

---------------------------------------------------

television
pillbox 11.11.137
Get ready to renew your Net?ix subscription, because 
the video streaming service has just inked a deal with 
Disneys Marvel to create an epic series event. The 
content, which will consist of four 13-episode series 
and a miniseries, was announced in a press release on 
Thursday.
The event will begin with a series focusing on comic 
book hero Daredevil, followed by separate series each 
focusing on fellow Hells Kitchen residents Jessica Jones, 
Iron Fist, and Luke Cage.
Slated to begin in 2015, the serialized epic will be 
released over a few years, and will lead up to one 
de?ning miniseries, The Defenders, described in the 
release as an attempt to reimagine a dream team of selfsacri?cing, heroic characters.
The announcement comes on the heels of the ABC 
premiere of Marvels Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. and the 
widely hailed success of Net?ix original series House of 
Cards and Orange is the New Black. Theres no word yet 
as to whether this new epic will be part of the Avengers 
universe, established by the latest Marvel ?lms and 
continued in Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.
Original content is still new territory for Net?ix. The 
services ?rst major release was House of Cards, followed 
by the highly anticipated fourth season of Arrested 
Development. This original content has a lot of potential, 
since Net?ix isnt beholden to advertising to pay for 
content, as traditional networks are. As a result, content 
can be molded to already-present viewers  not the 
demographics prized by traditional TV executives.
So far, critics and viewers alike have approved of Ne?ix 
original content, and House of Cards recently took home 
three Primetime Emmy Awards. The show received nine 
of the 14 total nominations for Net?ix programming.
However, that same freedom can also hamper the 
creation of high-quality content. The fourth series of 
Arrested Development never quite achieved the success 
of previous seasons, all released on FOX before the 
shows untimely cancellation.
The most interesting thing to note about this 
announcement is how the content will be issued. 
The individual series will be released separately, on a 
staggered schedule, but each series will be released in 
its entirety at one time. So youll be able to binge-watch 
all 13 Daredevil episodes whenever you like  but youll 
have to wait to start on Jessica Jones.
This announcement also comes amidst a ?urry of 
superhero content hitting the market. Marvels sequel 
Thor: The Dark World was released in the U.S. last 
weekend, Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. is currently airing its 
?rst season on ABC, and Arrow, a show based on DC 
comic book hero the Green Arrow, is airing its second 
season on The CW.
The viewer makeup will be especially interesting. Will 
Net?ix try to appeal to and gain viewership from the 
younger demos sought after by traditional programming, 
or will there be a more evenly distributed age range? 
The epic event is sure to draw current fans of both the 
Marvel comics and the feature ?lms, but Net?ix will 
need to distinguish its superheroes from the rest in 
the entertainment world to attract viewers outside its 
already-present fan base.
Mairad Pettit | Staffwriter
Net?ix seals deal with Disneys Marvel
New material will expand Net?ix original content with extensive series and miniseries event
Andie Park | Staffwriter
Director Edgar Wright teams up with actors Simon 
Pegg and Nick Frost to complete the ?nal installment 
of the Three Flavours Cornetto trilogy. In one of the 
best movies this year, ?ve friends reunite 20 years after 
failing to ?nish the Golden Mile pub crawl, spanning 
12 pubs in their hometown of Newtown Haven. 
Although the glory days are over, ringleader Gary King 
(played by Pegg) gathers the group to reach the ?nal 
pub  The Worlds End. As the friends return to their 
hometown, they realize its a little different from what 
they remember  thanks to an alien invasion. As the 
?nal ?lm of the trilogy, The Worlds End is ?lled with a 
hilariously chaotic sense of childlike enthusiasm with its 
amazing ?ght sequences and characters, but at its core, 
its a heartwarming ?lm that deals with growing up and 
moving on from the golden years of ones youth.
The Worlds End
Friday, Nov. 15
7:30, 10
The Rocky Horror Picture Show
Sunday, Nov. 17
8, 11:59
This cult horror ?lm returns once again to Carnegie 
Mellon. The Rocky Horror Picture Show, the classic 
cinematic force that rocked pop culture, is one of the 
most entertaining and interactive ?lms that has lived 
through generations. When a young couple, Brad 
Majors (Barry Bostwick) and Janet Weiss (Susan 
Sarandon), comes across the mansion of Dr. Frank-NFurter, they ?nd themselves in a slew of Frankensteinian 
misadventures infused with pop-rock ballads, mad 
scientists, and transvestites in lingerie. Come to the 
midnight showing with ScotchnSodas shadowcast for 
a one-of-a-kind experience.
Kick-Ass 2
Saturday, Nov. 16
7:30, 10
Kick-Ass is back with a vengeance. In the sequel to 
the splashy ?lm about an inexperienced crime-?ghting 
teen, Kick-Ass 2 returns with the same energetic chaos 
as its titular hero tries to defeat his ally-turned-enemy 
Red Mist. After initially retiring from the crime-?ghting 
business, Dave Lizewski (a.k.a. Kick-Ass) trains to be 
a proper hero and joins Justice Forever, headed by 
Colonel Stars and Stripes (played by Jim Carrey, if you 
can even imagine). Kick-Ass 2 is action-packed and full 
of raunchy humor that will make you want to put on a 
mask and ?ght some crime on the streets of the Burgh.
dollarmovie
McConomy Auditorium, University Center

---------------------------------------------------

feature
pillbox 11.11.1398feature 
pillbox 11.11.13
Sporting signature 50s frames and carrying a hauntingly 
clear and soulful voice, former Carnegie Mellon student 
James Wolpert glided into the top 12 of NBCs reality 
television competition The Voice with his performance 
of Joni Mitchells A Case of You last Tuesday.
Wolperts stripped-down version of the Mitchell hit left 
his mentor, Maroon 5 bandleader Adam Levine, wideeyed and stunned. You came back and did something 
incredibly bold. You had so much control, and it was so 
elegant. I could not be more proud of you, Levine said.
Levine was not the only one ?oored by Wolperts 
performance. His A Case of You single subsequently 
lurched to No. 3 on the iTunes sales chart before settling 
comfortably around No. 4 on Tuesday night.
Tonight, Wolpert will perform in The Voices live show 
against the top 12 at 8 p.m. Man, I just feel like this 
is exactly the position I want to be in right now, and 
theres literally nothing more that I could ask for. This is 
the most incredible thing thats ever happened to me, 
Wolpert said.
Surprisingly, Wolperts powerful voice and music style  
which falls somewhere between classics Jack White and 
Queen  was not enough to gain him an acceptance 
from Carnegie Mellons vocal performance program back 
in 2009. I auditioned for their voice program, but I didnt 
get in, and I just wanted to go to the school so badly that 
I went for my second-best choice, which was art, he 
said.
After two challenging years as an art major  I was 
a terrible student, but I really enjoyed my classes  
the 22-year-old Lancaster, Pa., native dropped out of 
Carnegie Mellon and began working at the Apple Store 
in Shadyside.
What kind of art did I specialize in? Hmm Bad art, 
Wolpert chuckled. But Ill never forget my time at CMU. 
It was an incredibly important, pivotal experience in my 
life. I also just had a lot of fun in the ?ne arts program.
Wolpert said, I dropped out because I felt called to a 
different path. I would love to ?nish up at some point
in my life though. You know, go back and get the ol 
college degree.
The choice to leave college has certainly paid off, but 
Wolpert warns that its not the path for everybody. I 
certainly hope Im not encouraging anybody to drop 
out, he said. All of the lessons that I learned at CMU 
and the nuggets of wisdom I acquired during my two 
years there kind of nestled themselves into place as my 
life moved forward  and then it all came together and 
the dots all connected.
Although it was tough to balance music and work during 
his two years as an Apple employee  I was working 
full-time and I was making barely enough to pay rent 
 Wolpert stuck around Pittsburgh and continued 
to perform with Carnegie Mellons a cappella group 
Soundbytes, while recording and writing on his own.
Soundbytes shows were the majority of what Ive been 
doing for the past seven months, besides The Voice. My 
solo performances kind of went by the wayside because I 
was having so much fun with Soundbytes; theyre some 
of the best friends Ive ever met and I will cherish them 
for my entire life, Wolpert said.
Sophie Wirt, a junior professional writing major and 
member of Soundbytes, said, James was an integral 
part of Soundbytes, both musically and as a friend to 
everyone in the group. Though were all incredibly 
excited for him, I dont think anyones surprised that his 
talent is taking him places.
Wolpert, who had many solos during his time with 
Soundbytes, did not expect to experience stage fright 
before he went on the show, but a case of nerves kicked 
in right before his ?rst appearance in front of The Voices 
13 million viewers last month.
For my blind audition, I almost collapsed before they 
opened the stage doors for me. Its something that I had 
never experienced before because I always thought I 
was a comfortable performer on stage; its where I feel 
the most at home. But I think the sheer scale of it all is 
something that you just have to get used to, he said.
The audience would have never been able to tell. 
Wolpert stormed the stage, nailing his rendition of 
music-inspiration Jack Whites Love Interruption with 
grit and verve. All four judges  Christina Aguilera, Cee 
Lo Green, Adam Levine, and Blake Shelton  spun their 
chairs around to ?ght over Wolpert before he eventually 
settled on Levine as his mentor.
Wolpert makes a soulful entrance on The Voice
Former CMU students rendition of Joni Mitchells A Case of You climbs to No. 3 on iTunes
Former Carnegie Mellon student, and now top 12 
contestant on NBCs The Voice, James Wolpert performed a stripped-down version of Joni Mitchells 
A Case of You to secure his place amongst the best 
on the reality series.
                 Screenshot courtesy of The Voice via YouTube
by Nol Um | News Co-Editor[]
Quickly, Wolpert developed a reputation as the top dog of 
Levines team. Zayda Rivera wrote in the New York Daily 
News, I still strongly feel Levines squad is the most 
powerful with vocalists like James Wolpert. Its hard 
not to watch Wolpert, who Levine previously described 
as a stockbroker who could sing. Hes passionate and 
fun.
Wolpert feels strongly about promoting and supporting 
the other contestants through his Twitter and Facebook, 
even voting for his competitors through The Voices 
voting app.
I consider myself honored to be counted among the 
[contestants] at all. It might be counterintuitive, but I 
think the key to success on the show, or music at all, 
is putting aside the things that people say  good or 
bad  and just investing yourself in the music, he said. 
I know that sounds pretty corny, but its the truth. Ive 
found that thats the most harmonious way to approach 
this whole thing.
Interestingly, The Voice hasnt been Wolperts ?rst 
exposure to reality television. In 2008, he was featured 
in ?ve episodes of the ABC television series High School 
Musical: Get In the Picture.
Wolperts other acting experience includes a lead 
role in Yulin Kuangs (DC 13) short ?lm The Perils of 
Growing Up Flat-Chested, which won an award for Best 
Narrative Short at the San Diego Asian Film Festival last 
Saturday.
I love acting. Its really fun. In a university with such a 
prestigious acting school, I would never compare myself 
to anybody there or claim that I am going to make my 
big foray into acting anytime soon, but its de?nitely on 
the table because I have a great time doing it and people 
seem to enjoy it and it gives me another outlet, he said. 
I love having as many creative outlets as I possibly can.
Fans at home love that Wolpert encompasses the very 
essence of the stereotypical Carnegie Mellon student  
quietly passionate, slightly nerdy, and always humble.
I just feel really proud of him. Its a great feeling when 
a fellow Tartan is successful; I feel like we all share each 
others triumphs, sophomore professional writing and 
creative writing double major Sarah Hodgson said. 
Based on his style and his passion, he seems to pretty 
much embody CMU, which is why its so amazing that 
we get to have this talented, stylish, down-to-earth guy 
representing our school.
I was completely taken aback by the support, Wolpert 
said. I am humbled by the response and I know I 
wouldnt be here without the support of my family, my 
friends and my beautiful girlfriend Nadia [Sheen], who 
also went to Carnegie Mellon.
Wolpert says that currently, Sheen (MCS 13) and other 
Carnegie Mellon alumni have formed a community out 
in Los Angeles. CMU has this little satellite community 
out here in L.A.; we just hang out and get together pretty 
often, Wolpert said.
Keeping in touch with Carnegie Mellon alumni and 
friends helps Wolpert feel connected to the Pittsburgh 
community that he still very much considers home. Im 
so nostalgic about my time at CMU; its hilarious. All this 
pain-pleasure memory is ?ooding back to me right now.
What I dont miss though, was being trapped in Scobell 
my freshman year, Wolpert laughed.
According to his Twitter feed, Wolperts favorite 
Pittsburgh eats include some classic Carnegie Mellon 
student go-tos: Union Grill, Steel Cactus, and Spice 
Island. I love hanging out in Shadyside  there are 
great bars around there. I love hanging out at the Apple 
Store because Im a nerd. I love going to the Strip on 
Market Days. My favorite restaurant to go to is Tamari, 
he said in an interview with WPXI.
As for the fame and the buzz, Wolpert said, Its 
impossible not to read the stuff online, because this is 
kind of the ?rst thing of this type thats ever happened 
to me. Its a whole new way of seeing yourself, I guess. I 
dont necessarily think its a good idea to read comments 
and articles about me online, but I succumb to it 
anyways.
Wolpert said, Its been a roller coaster ride, I have to 
say. And thats kind of the way I like it. I like bouncing 
back and forth between different places and different 
situations. I like all sorts of crazy situations, and thats 
just me.
Screenshot courtesy of The Voice via YouTube
Top right: James Wolpert has repeatedly wowed judges and the audience at The Voice with his soulful style.
Bottom left: Until recently, Wolpert performed with Carnegie Mellon co-ed a cappella group Soundbytes.
Screenshot courtesy of The Voice via YouTube

---------------------------------------------------

10music
pillbox 11.11.13
Standard formulas can get tired very quickly, especially 
in the realm of arts and entertainment. Movies that 
follow traditional arcs too closely can be stale and 
predictable. But formulas exist for a reason, and if 
executed well, they can be highly effective.
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra has one of those 
formulas  unchanging but well performed nearly every 
time. Last Saturday night, the orchestra presented 
yet another variation of its usual recipe in a program 
featuring acclaimed violin soloist Arabella Steinbacher 
and Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakovs Scheherazade.
Aside from Steinbacher, a special spotlight fell on guest 
conductor Rafael Frhbeck de Burgos, who has worked 
with the orchestra for 42 years and just celebrated his 
80th birthday. Frhbeck de Burgos walked con?dently to 
the podium to a round of thunderous applause.
For this concert, the orchestra presented one of 
its standard three-part programs: an edgier, more 
contemporary piece, a standout solo performance, and 
?nally a symphonic classic that shows off the orchestras 
prowess.
This time, the program opened with the U.S. premiere 
of Leonardo Baladas Symphony No. 6, Symphony of 
Sorrows  a dissonant, high-drama piece characterized 
by chirping strings, a theme building in the brass, and 
a dark tremor in the percussion. The piece showcased 
both the group and individual talent: The staccato 
passages in the strings were impressively synchronized, 
while principal cellist Anne Martindale Williams gave a 
mesmerizing solo. The symphony also has local ?avor; 
Balada is a professor of composition at Carnegie Mellon.
Although the orchestra brought its own soloists to 
the forefront, Steinbacher was the star of the evening. 
Steinbachers bold fashion choice drew as much 
attention as her violin; she walked onstage in a bright 
fuschia gown.
Her actual performance, however, was quite 
understated. Steinbacher offered a muted yet ?uid 
sound, and while her solo was quiet, the orchestra did 
well to avoid overpowering her.
Despite her softer tone, Steinbachers passion was no 
less for it; she was capable of a surprising amount of 
vigor, driving into the more technically dif?cult passages 
without hesitation. Sergei Proko?evs Concerto No. 1 in 
D major for Violin and Orchestra is a virtuoso piece and 
features very technically dif?cult passages. Steinbacher 
deftly alternated between choppy, halting notes and 
blindingly fast runs. The concerto ended on a heartwrenchingly sweet note, with Steinbacher wringing 
every ounce of vibrato out of her ?ngers.
After Steinbacher left the stage, the orchestra 
launched into Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakovs hypnotizing 
Scheherazade. This piece was the exception to 
the orchestras otherwise technically impeccable 
performance; a few of the entrances were unintentionally 
staggered, and when the orchestra dropped down to 
a nearly inaudible pizzacato, the musicians sounded a 
little unsure. That said, the orchestra gave a sweeping 
performance overall  bewitching and halting in all the 
right places.
The indisputable highlight of Scheherazade was 
concertmaster Noah Bendix-Balgleys enchanting 
rendition of the classic solo. As the orchestra faded out, 
Bendix-Balgleys violin took over and held the audience 
in rapt attention, offering a beautiful vibrato and 
refreshingly pure tone that was surely as enchanting as 
any of Scheherazades tales.
In combination, the three distinct performances made 
for another successful interpretation of the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra recipe. The formula may be 
familiar, but it has yet to cause classical music lovers to 
lose interest.
Rachel Cohen | Pillbox Editor
Pittsburgh Symphony plays to its strengths
The orchestra presents a tried-and-true but no less compelling recipe for musical success
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra regularly puts on formulaic but well-executed programs, such as last Saturdays performance of Scheherazade with Arabella Steinbacher.
Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 11.11.1311
Piled Higher and Deeper by Jorge Cham
jorge@phdcomics.comphdcomics.com
Poorly Drawn Lines by Reza Farazmand
poorlydrawnlines@gmail.compoorlydrawnlines.com
Kiltie As Charged by Charlie Shulman and Kairavi Chahal
cshulman@andrew.cmu.edu

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 11.11.13
Hark, A Vagrant by Kate Beaton
kathrynmoira@gmail.comharkavagrant.com
Why the Sandwich is the King of Food-Engineering by Doghouse Diaries
doghousediaries@gmail.comthedoghousediaries.com

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 11.11.1313
Solutions from Nov. 4
CrosswordMedium DifficultyEasy Difficulty
Kakuro Puzzle: Medium Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Hard Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of www.KrazyDad.comKakuro courtesy of www.KrazyDad.com
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue above it. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 11.11.13
1. Son of Isaac and Rebekah
2. Coffin support
3. Amoeba-like alien: The _____
4. Musical composition
5. Battleship letters
6. Architect I.M.
7. Without
8. Spanish hero
9. Itty-bitty
10. Cutting instrument for paper
11. Horn sound
12. Even ___ speak...
13. Celestial body
21. The ___ Valley is a Californian wineland
23. Able was ___...
25. Places
26. God of Islam
28. Do something together
29. Goose genus
30. Inventor Nikola
31. Fortune-telling cards
33. Spoil
34. Blender brand
35. Like marshes
38. Capital of Yemen
41. Touchy
43. Jumps on one leg
46. To ___ (perfectly)
48. Stink
52. Most reasonable
54. Unfettered
55. Heaps
57. Word that can succeed dance, foot and 
door
58. Mata ___
59. Immensely
60. Covers
62. Are you ___ out?
63. Central points
64. Lodge members
67. Neckline shape
68. East ender?
1. Declines
5. Unexpected victory
10. RR stops
14. Structure for storing grain
15. Bobby of the Black Panthers
16. Price paid
17. Long time
18. Subsequently
19. Caucus state
20. Living in a city
22. Ominous
24. Spanish appetizer
27. Stains
28. Ancient military engine
32. Chopper topper
36. Half and half
37. World book
39. Blot out
40. Kind of prof.
42. Mother of Isaac
44. Word that can succeed 
building, web, or burial
45. Salsa singer Cruz
47. High public esteem
49. Actor Beatty
50. Stretch of land
51. Hand woven pictorial design
53. Seaweed
56. On the ocean
57. Kerosene source
61. Cutting instrument
65. Anklebones
66. Antipasto morsel
69. Hydroxyl compound
70. Archer of myth
71. Passover feast
72. Short stocking
73. Old German helmet
74. City on the Ruhr
75. Speaker of baseball
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
Ignorance is bliss, but I guess you wouldnt know that.
taurus
april 20may 20
Act on what you feel, not what you think you should feel.
gemini
may 21june 21
Hesitate, and the opportunity will be gone forever.
cancer
june 22july 22
Just let someone else worry about it for once.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
Its better to be slightly arrogant than to have no confidence 
at all.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
You will realize that some things cant be perfect, no matter 
how much time you spend on them.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Good things take time, so just stick to your plan and youll 
get there.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Its easier for people to cooperate with you when you tell 
them what you are doing.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
You deserve praise, but you arent always going to get it.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
You want to forgive, but your pride is in the way.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
There are some difficult steps that you will have to take, but 
why not put them off as long as possible?
pisces
feb. 19march 20
At this point, the only thing to do is wait for it all to blow 
over.
Kairavi Chahal | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar 
pillbox 11.11.1315
MONDAY11.11.13
Toad the Wet Sprocket. Altar Bar (1620 Penn Ave.). 
7:30 p.m.
The alternative rock band  comprised of vocalist and 
guitarist Glen Phillips, guitarist Todd Nichols, bassist Dean 
Dinning, and drummer Randy Guss  will perform at the 
Altar Bar. Tickets range $3032, and the event is open to 
all ages.
TUESDAY11.12.13
Creative Writing New Faculty Reading. 
Danforth Lounge (University Center) 4:30 p.m.
The Carnegie Mellon English department will introduce its 
new faculty members, assistant English professor Kevin 
Gonzalez and adjunct English professor Lauren Shapiro, 
with a special reading.
Artist Talk: Transformazium in Conversation with 
Paul Ramirez Jonas. Carnegie Lecture Hall. 6:30 p.m.
Braddock-based artist collaborative Transformazium 
and artist Paul Ramirez Jonas will come together to 
discuss the initiatives series of community-based creative 
engagement activities. The talk is free and open to the 
public.
WEDNESDAY11.13.13
Selective Engagement After Unipolarity: Robert Art. 
Baker Hall 136A. 4:30 p.m.
The Center for International Relations and Politics features 
a talk by Robert Art, the Christian A. Herter Professor 
of International Relations at Brandeis University. Art will 
discuss the grand strategy and national interest changes 
the U.S. must make in order to protect itself from 
overstepping its resources.
Andy McKee. Rex Theater (1602 E. Carson St.). 8 p.m.
The ?ngerstyle acoustic guitarist will bring his YouTubefamous compositions to Pittsburgh. Tickets are $25.
THURSDAY11.14.13
Inauguration of Dr. Subra Suresh. University Center. 
All-day event.
The Carnegie Mellon community is invited to join the 
festivities as Suresh is inaugurated as the ninth president 
of Carnegie Mellon. The celebration will continue on 
Friday.
The Treblemakers. Skibo Caf. 7:30 p.m.
Carnegie Mellons newest coed a cappella group will 
perform as part of an event hosted by AB Skibo.
ONGOING
14th International Exhibition of Botanical Art & 
Illustration. Hunt Institute for Botanical Documentation 
(Hunt Library, Fifth Floor). Through Dec. 19.
The exhibition will include 41 pieces of artwork by 41 
artists from 10 countries. The Institute established the 
International series in 1964 with the hope of supporting 
and encouraging contemporary botanical artists. Every 
three years, the International series features the works of 
talented botanical artists from around the world.
Yasumasa Morimura: Theater of the Self. 
The Andy Warhol Museum. Through Jan. 12.
In this retrospective exhibit presented by the Andy Warhol 
Museum, Japanese artist Yasumasa Morimura plays with 
images of well-known cultural icons, placing his own face 
over portraits of ?gures like Marilyn Monroe and Mao 
Zedong. For more information, visit warhol.org.
Alien She. Miller Gallery (Purnell Center for the Arts). 
Through Feb. 16.
This exhibit examines the in?uence of Riot Grrrl, an 
underground feminist punk rock movement that surfaced 
in the 90s, on artists and cultural producers today. For 
more information, visit millergallery.cfa.cmu.edu.
2013 Carnegie International. Carnegie Museum of Art. 
Through March 16.
The biennial Carnegie International brings the world art 
scene to Pittsburgh in a large exhibition of diverse works. 
This years exhibition features 35 artists and represents 19 
countries. For more information, visit cmoa.org.
Compiled by Rachel Cohen | Pillbox Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.
Classifieds
$1125/mo Beautiful Quiet City Home 
Green?eld/Sq Hill near Beechwood Blvd. Avail. 
DEC. 2013 3 Bed Room, 1 1/2 Bath LR, DR, 
New Central AC/Furnace, New Windows/
Doors, Hardwood Floors, Patio/Covered Porch. 
New Dish Washer/Fridge,Washer/Dryer. Utilities 
not included. email : rp.84332@hotmail.com

---------------------------------------------------

16gallery
pillbox 11.11.13
Jason Chen | Staff Photographer
AB Underground hosted Washington, D.C.-based indie rock band 
U.S. Royalty last Wednesday in The Underground. The four-piece 
band played songs from their debut album MIRRORS as well as their 
forthcoming album Blue Sunshine.
u.s. royalty.
https://thetartan.org/intranet/documents
