Downloads go legit
Napster 2.0, MusicMatch, and iTunes go head 
to head to head in this weeks review. 
SciTech, A6
Taught in the act
Drama students transition into the professional 
world.
Pillbox, 6
UAA title slips away
Tartans lose 37-35 to Washington University on 
failed last-second 2-point conversion.
Sports, I2,
Founded in 1 g06 
Independent since 2002THE TARTAN
Volume 98, Issue 10
Housing for 
first-years 
less flexible
www.thetartan.org10 November 2003
by Christina Kung
Junior Staffwriter
The building of New House result
ed in changes in housing behavior 
that has existed for years. The new 
environmentally-friendly dorm has 
meant brand-new rooms for firstyears, but New House is also one of a 
combination of factors that have con
spired to nearly eliminate Housing 
Services yearly offering of housing 
deposit refunds for students who 
move off campus.
With New Houses 256 rooms now 
available to first-year students, 
Housing Services has made great 
progress in moving first-years into 
on-campus rooms, according to Tim 
Michael, director of Housing 
Services.
In the past, Housing has offered the 
option of allowing students to cancel 
their Housing License Agreement 
(HLA) in order to make room for 
those stuck in temporary housing. 
Sometimes, students would even be 
given more than their deposit back 
upon cancellation, due to the housing 
shortage. The addition of Henderson 
House and New House along with the 
cancellation of leases in Oakland 
apartments have factored into the 
complex equation  a 15-page docu
ment  Housing Services uses to esti
mate how many beds they will need 
for incoming first-years.
According to Michael, the opening 
of New House cannot be directly tied 
to the lack of HLA deposit refunds. 
He said that Housing Services proper
ly estimated the number of beds they 
need for incoming first-years this 
year, eliminating the need for 
refunds.
It is more coincidence than any
thing, said Michael.
Greek housing is one of the parties 
that is hurting from Housing Services 
newfound bed-counting accuracy. 
Potential members, or pledges, are 
given the option of moving into the 
house. However, any housing 
changes that involve a student mov
ing into a fraternity house have to be 
reported within ten days of the start 
of the semester. With rush ending in 
early September, just after this dead
line, it is nearly impossible for 
prospective brothers to move into the 
house in their freshman year.
In the May before the fall semester 
starts, a fraternity house must submit 
a list of future residents. However, 
people are dropped from this list dur
ing the summer for various reasons
 leaves of absence, transfers, study 
abroad, withdrawals, suspensions, 
marriage. Consequently, this creates 
vacancies, and any new residents that 
wish to live in the house are permit
ted to fill these vacancies only. Yet 
the problem arises of new residents 
needing to cancel their previous HLA 
in the short span of ten days. In the 
event that a pledge wanted to move 
in, ten days is not enough time to 
undergo the rush and pledging 
process.
Though freshmen have ten days, it 
is to my understanding that this is not 
enough time for a freshman to make a 
decision to live in the house or not, 
said Damian Dourado, an advisor to
See GREEKS, page A4
Jeff Cullers/Photo Editor
Wont you be my neighbor?
Last Monday, the first layer of a window clung to its frame at the Starbucks Coffee still being constructed on the cor
ner of South Craig Street and Forbes Avenue. The coffee giant takes its place among other coffee shops on South Craig 
Street and directly across the street from the expanding Kiva Han. The window was replaced a few days later.
6VoluVme9l8V ,VIs1me10 wVmV e9 .th
Jeff Cullers/Photo Editor
Robert Cavalier leads CMUs effort in the Public Informed Citizens Online 
Assembly project, which aims to bring a new level of debate to democracy.
facilitates a worldwide process 
known as deliberative polling. 
Deliberative polling was first 
devised by Stanford University pro
fessor James S. Fishkin in 1988. 
Unlike traditional polling, various 
groups of subjects in deliberative 
polling enter an interactive discus
sion, read relevant material, ask an
by Kirk Higgins
Junior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon University is 
leading the development of an 
Internet-based initiative, known as 
the Public Informed Citizens Online 
Assembly (PICOLA) Project, which
expert panel questions about the 
issue, and deliberate indefinitely 
until they are ready to answer poll 
questions. The Center for 
Deliberative Democracy, at Stanford 
University, has been able to conduct 
several deliberative polls in numer
ous countries throughout the world 
at the nationwide, statewide, and 
local-area levels. PICOLA is unique 
because it allows its subjects to 
deliberate on the Internet for the 
first time instead of gathering at a 
meeting point.
If you took an average person and 
give them a specific political issue, 
only a small number of them will 
have given it serious thought, said 
Alan Prather, former lead user inter
face developer for PICOLA Project. 
The purpose is to create software to 
facilitate deliberative polling. PICO
LA seeks to take perfectly random 
sampling of constituents that are less 
educated on a given issue and allow 
them to read and deliberate on that 
given issue and discuss it with an 
expert panel. The PICOLA software 
is to conduct a deliberative poll in a 
structured manner so you can be 
sure everyone gets their chance to 
speak and to guide the subjects 
through the process.
Robert Cavalier, professor of phi
losophy and ethics, is leading CMUs 
role in the advancement of this 
process. Cavalier learned about the 
Center for Deliberative Democracy 
after meeting Fishkin and attending 
a conference back in 2001. Cavalier 
had also attended a national confer
ence in June of 2003, entitled 
Developing and Using Online Tools 
for Deliberative Democracy. 
According to Cavalier, the confer
ence brought together leading theo
rists and developers for discussions 
concerning the details of creating 
and utilizing new tools for partici
patory citizenship. Cavalier also
See PICOLA, page A4
Freaks and freak shows to be topic of lecture
by James Auwaerter
Copy Manager
Freaks. This word conjures 
images of The Bearded Lady, Mr. 
Jigsaw, or maybe some of the guests 
on The Jerry Springer show. Some 
feel pity for the freaks; others, revul
sion. Michael Chemers upcoming 
lecture,  A Prurient Curiosity: the 
Freak in American Cultural History, 
will examine the effects that freak 
shows have had on Americas culture 
and psyche.
Freak shows have had much 
greater influence on popular culture 
than most people realize, Michael 
Chemers said.
Freak shows dominated the 19th 
century, said Chemers. According to 
Chemers, along with a lot of the mod
ern circus, freak shows originally 
began as an outgrowth of the muse
um. He also said that historians and 
sociologists have largely overlooked 
freak shows for several reasons.
One reason is the tendency of his
torians to look to the high-brow 
forms of entertainment for reflec
tions of culture. While one does see a 
culture reflected there, Chemers 
said, its not the mainstream.
Another is the popular perception 
of freak shows promotion of cruelty 
towards fellow human beings.
A lot of people think you go there 
to point and say Thank God thats 
not me,  said Chemers. There cer
tainly were some people who thought 
that way, but there were as many rea
sons to visit as there were people vis
iting. The freaks themselves general
ly chose to be there. Their salaries 
were higher than almost all others of 
the time, and the performers were 
usually treated well  they made a 
lot of money for the circus. Some
people may remember the movie The 
Elephant Man, which was based on 
the life of Joseph Merrick. Rather 
than being beaten by a cruel circus 
master, Merrick was treated quite 
well, amassing a small fortune in his 
time on tour.
Chemers feels that the freak dis
turbs us because the freak does not 
apologize for his or her appearance.
The freak intentionally connects 
with monstrosity.... [He or she] does
nt try to make it normal, but exacer
bates the difference, said Chemers. 
Through this connection with mon
strosity, we are forced to re-examine 
what it means to be human.
The freak sits at a nexus of signifi
cation. The freak confounds our 
expectations about what is one body, 
what is two, what is male, what is 
female, what is dead, what is alive.... 
[It makes us see that] all of our con
structs are just that, constructs.
Chemers is a post-doctoral fellow 
brought to CMU by The Center for the 
Arts in Society, a group made up of 
about 25 faculty, mostly from CFA 
and H&SS. Tim Haggerty, associate 
director of the Center, explained 
some of the qualifications necessary 
to be chosen by the Center.
You need to hold a terminal 
degree [e.g. a PhD, or Master of Fine 
Arts] ... and we try to choose some
one who fits with our theme each 
year, said Haggerty. This years 
theme is Art & Social Renewal. The 
fellow has to teach one class at CMU 
about his or her research, and is also 
required to give at least one lecture 
during the course of the year, though 
giving more is not frowned upon.
Chemers goal here at CMU is to 
study how our society viewed freaks 
with an eye to comparing those views
See FREAKS, page A4
Butters vs. Dell
CMU student challenged Dell, saying he should not pay for XP
by Alexandra Kilduff
Junior Staffwriter
Dell computers are not an uncom
mon sight in the laps and on the 
desks of Carnegie Mellon students. 
However, their flexibility did not 
meet Jeff Saretskys needs when he 
went to buy a new laptop. Saretsky, 
nicknamed Butters by his brothers 
at Sigma Nu, is an avid believer in 
the open source movement, a reader 
of the tech-oriented Slashdot.com, 
and uses Linux almost exclusively. 
The junior in electrical and comput
er engineering found out that Dells 
system usage policy does not allow 
for much deviation from the 
Original Equipment Manufacturer 
(OEM) norm. OEMs are companies 
that simplify the task of building a 
computer by assembling and testing 
it on behalf of the consumer, often 
providing extended customer sup
port options as well.
Saretsky began looking for a 
replacement for his last Dell laptop a 
few months ago. He wanted to 
install Linux on the new laptop, 
because he prefers the operating 
system and to facilitate a class he is 
taking entitled GNU Linux for 
Beginners. Dell does not offer a 
non-Microsoft option for customers 
choice of operating system.
Saretsky asked Dell if he could be 
refunded the cost of the Windows
XP. According to Saretsky, Dell 
refused to refund his money. He 
then asked if he could purchase the 
laptop without Windows XP. His 
request was again refused.
Saretsky then took his question 
directly to Microsoft. There he 
learned that Microsoft employed a 
bulk licensing policy on all Dell 
computers. Microsoft offers a large 
licensing agreement to the OEM (in 
this case, Dell) and in return Dell 
tries to sell as many units with the 
XP system as possible in order to 
gain corporate rebates. Saretsky 
went into his purchase intending to 
challenge Dell on the mandatory 
Microsoft issue, as he had heard 
about similar claims.
Saretsky purchased the computer, 
called Dell, and asked to be put in 
touch with their legal department.
Saretsky said that the response he 
got was less than desired: the repre
sentative he spoke to told Saretsky 
he was not subject to a refund, and 
that by opening the package he was 
automatically subject to the 
Microsoft EULA and all its terms. 
Furthermore, the representative 
told Saretsky that because he pur
chased the computer but did not fol
low the terms of the Dell Purchase 
Agreement, Dell could just reclaim 
the computer, refunding his money. 
However, the representative told
See DELL, page A4
Kob Sukwong/Photo Staff
Jeffrey Saretsky, a junior in ECE, is an avid Linux user. When he bought his lap
top, Dell gave no option to have it built without Windows XP.
USSA Senate motion 
fails for second time
by Alex Meseguer
News Editor
Last Thursday, Student Senate 
voted against Erik Michaels-Obers 
United States Student Association 
motion for a second time with a vote 
of 10 to 11, with 2 abstentions. If it 
had passed, the petition would have 
required a referendum of the stu
dent body where students would 
decide whether or not to join the 
USSA, the countrys largest and old
est student lobby. The measure pre
viously failed 9 to 12 with one 
abstention in a vote on October 2. 
Michaels-Ober, a Senator and junior 
in philosophy, collected 269 under
graduate signatures in order to rein
troduce the referendum into Senate 
discussion, and was disappointed 
with the Senates decision.
Senate voting this measure down 
says that this elite group of 11 peo
ple will deny the decision to the stu
dent body, said Michaels-Ober.
Michaels-Ober suggested that 
Senator Steven Kling, a junior in 
ECE, might have influenced the vote 
numbers.
Senator Kling moved to reorder 
the agenda to make the USSA the 
last item on [it] so only 23 Senators 
were able to vote, said MichaelsOber. At least one of the Senators 
who left during the meeting voted 
for the referendum when it first 
came up.
Kling denied that the move was 
intentional and that he proposed the 
modification to the agenda, which 
was approved by the Senate without 
controversy, to take care of more 
pressing business first.
I knew [the USSA] vote would 
take a long time and viewed the 
election as more important. There is 
a lot of [Funding and Recognition] 
stuff going on right now, said Kling.
The election Kling refers to is the 
replacement of former Funding and 
Recognition Committee Chair 
Daniel Papasian, a sophomore ECE 
major, with the recently elected 
Senator Megan Flocken, a senior in 
philosophy and English.
I do not think Klings action was 
intentional. The election didnt take 
a lot of time.... It probably didnt 
affect the USSA vote, said Nick 
Scocozzo, a Senator and sophomore 
in chemical engineering and bio
medical engineering, who also 
voted against the measure.
Even if the USSA issue was last, it 
would not be ignored by the present 
Senators, said Tom Terraccino, 
Senator and a junior in business 
administration. Terraccino said he 
voted no both times because he 
believed that the USSA was a politi
cal group with a political agenda 
and that if the referendum passed in 
the student body, it would not repre
sent the entire campus, only the lib
eral elements of the student body.
Scocozzo also viewed it as more of 
a political than non-partisan group.
The Senate constitution says that 
Student Senate cannot fund politi
cal groups. Although that wouldnt 
apply because the dues for the USSA 
wouldnt be from the Student 
Activities fee, Student Senate should 
still honor the spirit of that rule in 
the constitution, he said.
Michaels-Ober said that over 90
See SENATE, page A4
X

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  NOVEMBER 10, 20031
I^ge *2,
SciTeh, AePlb, oxcbprTc,tpsTeh
Weather
TUESDAYHi 57 
Lo 49
WEDNESDAY
Hi 59 
Lo 38
THURSDAY
Hi 44 
Lo 30
FRIDAYHi 44 
Lo 33
SATURDAY
Hi 47 
Lo 41
Crime 6 Incident
Protestors on Campus,
10/31/03, 1:11 pm  CMU Police 
were notified that protestors from 
Duquesne University were heading 
down to CMU. The protestors, part 
of the group Face the Truth 
America, were protesting against 
abortion and had signs with pic
tures of aborted babies on them. An 
officer monitored the protestors, 
who spread out along the sidewalk 
abutting Forbes Avenue and across 
from the University Center, lining 
up from Morewood to Beeler. A 
number of passers-by expressed dis
pleasure at the graphic nature of the 
signs being used to the monitoring 
officer. Members of Delta Upsilon 
fraternity responded to the protes
tors with signs reading Dont abort 
it, sell it 4 parts and Nuke Paris. 
Two female CMU students stood 
across the street from the protestors 
with signs reading Pro Choice and 
Proud of it. The protest lasted an 
hour and a half and ended without 
incident.
Smooth Move, 11/02/03, 1:15
am  While patrolling the fraterni
ties, two CMU police officers 
observed a group of men walking 
along the sidewalk towards them, 
one of whom dropped a beer can on 
the ground as the group 
approached the officers. One of the 
officers asked who had dropped the 
beer can, but none of the men 
responded. The officers then 
demanded identification from the 
men, who complied. One was a stu
dent whom the officers identified 
by his CMU ID. Though the officers 
suspected the student of consum
ing alcohol, the student would not 
admit to it. The officers warned the 
group about the city ordinance for
bidding open containers of alcohol 
and sent them on their way. No 
citations were issued.
Projectile, 11/02/03, 2:24 am
 While patrolling the fraternities, 
two CMU Police officers observed 
someone wearing a red shirt throw 
a wooden stool from Delta 
Upsilons porch out onto Forbes 
Avenue. The individual then ran 
into the fraternity house. The offi
cers went up the house and 
knocked on the door, but no one 
responded. The officers had a dis
patcher phone the house, and a few 
minutes later, a brother of the 
house came to the door. The offi
cers asked him to locate the indi
vidual in the red shirt. The brother 
returned several minutes later and 
claimed he couldnt find anyone 
matching the description given to 
him. The officers then requested 
the house president. They 
informed the president that if the 
individual who had thrown the 
stool could not be found, they 
would cite the house. When the 
president returned and said that no 
such person could be found in the 
house, the police issued Delta 
Upsilon an internal citation for dis
orderly conduct and another for the 
propulsion of missiles onto a road
way.
Bored, 11/04/03, 3:39 am  
Campus Police responded to call 
from the sororities about three 
male students who were burning 
paper towels behind Roselawn 
Terrace and in front of Margaret 
Morrison apartment 112. When the 
officers arrived, nothing was on 
fire, but the officers did notice ash 
and soot on the sidewalk and steps, 
and located the three students 
nearby. The students admitted to 
the officers that they had been 
burning the paper towels, and 
when pressed for a motive, they 
said only that they couldnt think of 
anything better to do. The officers 
asked the students to clean up the
debris and warned them against 
lighting fires in the future.
Medical: Seizure, 11/06/03, 
8:56 pm  A student contacted 
Campus Police to report a graduate 
student who had been found wan
dering the halls of the GSIA build
ing, bleeding from a laceration to 
his forehead. Upon arriving at 
GSIA, the officers found the gradu
ate student disoriented and cov
ered in blood from the cut on his 
forehead. When asked what had 
happened, the student stated that 
he had had a seizure but was not 
sure of when, and that he usually 
takes medication to prevent them 
but had not taken his medication 
that day. CMU EMS was on scene to 
treat the student before he was 
transported to Presbyterian 
Hospital.
Breaking and Entering, 
11/08/03,4:55 pm  Three CMU 
Police officers responded to a 
report of a criminal intrusion at one 
of the Roselawn terrace houses. 
One of the residents had awoken at 
7:45 am to find an unknown man 
asleep on the couch. She thought 
the man might have been a friend 
of one of her roommates, but it was 
later determined that no one in the 
house had known the man. The 
man had helped himself to a piece
of coffee cake before leaving, but 
nothing of value had been removed 
from the house. It was thought that 
the man might still be in the house, 
but a sweep of the house by the 
officers revealed that the man was 
indeed gone. One of the residents 
told the officers that they some
times leave the back door unlocked 
in case someone forgets their key. 
The officers informed her that leav
ing any of the doors unlocked was a 
very unsafe practice. The officers 
were also able to secure the broken 
latches on the storm door in the 
basement, though they informed 
the residents that Campus Housing 
should be contacted to have the 
proper repairs made. The resident 
who initially spotted the man later 
called Campus Police to give a full 
description.
Incident tallies 10/31 to 11/09
Sabotaged locks in Baker: 3
Thefts: 4
Medical: 16
Pairs of tires slashed: 3
Page 2 Compiled by 
Daniel Goldman
'ire
Librarian may get 
150 years in jail
(U-WIRE) SALT LAKE CITY - 
Eighteen minutes online could get 
former University of Utah library 
employee Ralph Kranz 150 years in 
jail.
On September 4, the former docu
ments librarian, an employee at the 
library for the past 21 years, visited 
what investigators classify as child 
pornography sites.
On September 8, technicians dis
covered the files in the cache folder of 
Kranzs state-owned University of 
Utah computer while dealing with a 
virus that had affected the library 
computer network. The files each had 
a time stamp of 3:15 to 3:33 pm.
University of Utahs Marriott 
Library Director Sarah Michalak then 
notified police.
Kranz waived his Miranda rights to 
tell the investigating officer, Utah 
Detective Mike McPharlin, that he 
was conducting research to see how 
easily accessible and available the 
sites were. Kranz said he had not 
entered any sites, according to 
McPharlins written report.
Regardless, according to Utah 
Assistant Attorney General Paul 
Amann, the prosecutor in the case, 
Kranzs explanation of conducting 
research is an excuse commonly 
used.
Wayne Peay, director of the Eccles 
Health Sciences Library said, Ralph 
would know you dont go into this 
land of information casually. Peay 
said that in order to conduct research 
in this area, you would make sure 
you were advising your supervisor. 
Conversely, Jack Ford, spokesman 
for the Utah Department of 
Corrections, said the case comes as a 
surprise to me.
Im surprised there is a state law 
that says you cant look at some
thing, said Ford. If youre not the 
one taking pictures, putting the Web 
site out, trafficking it, its real hard to 
make a case.
Because people who view, traffic in 
or create child pornography images 
are all prosecuted under the same 
statute, Kranz faces up to 15 years for 
each count. Each different child pic
tured constitutes one count and 
Kranz has been charged with 10 
counts.
Prosecutor Amann, who is also a 
spokesman for the Internet Crimes 
Against Children Task Force, said that 
due to the number of images found 
on Kranzs computer, Kranz is at the
upper end of folks weve seen.
Rather than arresting him immedi
ately, McPharlin gave Kranz a week to 
arrange for a surrender. McPharlin 
said he did this to avoid arresting 
Kranz in front of neighbors and to 
avoid a potentially embarrassing situ
ation. The arrest is simply a method 
of ensuring this individual will 
appear in court and answer to the 
charges.Student alleges her 
child was abused
(U-WIRE) HOUSTON  A 
University of Houston student and 
parent has accused an employee of 
the UH Child Care Center of abusing 
her four-year-old son. The student 
took her complaint public by passing 
out flyers Thursday to notify other 
parents who use the center.
Jill Schroeder, a senior in political 
science, claimed that when she 
picked her son up from the center on 
Oct. 21, he told her his neck was hurt
ing and that an employee of the cen
ter had hurt him.
He showed me, on me, exactly 
what she did, Schroeder said, 
demonstrating how her son had 
placed his hands around her neck. 
He squeezed my neck really hard.
Schroeder took pictures of her 
sons neck showing redness in his
throat area.
Schroeder said her son was at nap 
time at the time of the alleged inci
dent. She said her son had been talk
ing and not lying still when the 
woman, who does not teach the fouryear-olds class, told him to be quiet, 
and that was when the incident 
allegedly occurred.
Employees of the center told a dif
ferent story, Sherry Howard, the cen
ters director, said. They said the 
woman was in the room getting 
cleaning supplies and that she did 
not interact with the children.
Child Care Center officials said an 
internal investigation was taking 
place and Child Protective Services 
(CPS) was contacted, but the 
employee denied touching the fouryear-old.
Howard said it is difficult to deter
mine the truth in a case like this and 
that she has not heard from CPS 
since she contacted the agency near
ly two weeks ago.
Shes got pictures and a son that 
says [it happened], and [the employ
ee]s been here five years, Howard 
said.
These are serious allegations, and 
we are coordinating with the univer
sity and the state, Howard said.
Keith Kowalka, director of the 
University Center and Associated 
Facilities, oversees the center. He
said that measures have been put in 
place to prevent the teacher and 
four-year-old from coming in contact.
The measures will not be neces
sary for long, however, because the 
employee tendered her resignation 
two days after the alleged incident. 
Friday will be her last day working at 
the center.
The employee said she did not 
harm the child and has declined fur
ther comment.
Although Howard said she had not 
heard that the employee was plan
ning to leave the center, the womans 
colleagues said she discussed plans 
to leave before the accusation. 
According to the centers newsletter, 
the Woman was leaving to pursue 
other job opportunities.
Schroeder said she waited for the 
center to conclude its investigation 
and that officials were very respon
sive, but when no action was taken, 
she decided to make the matter pub
lic.
Howard and Kowalka said they are 
waiting for CPS to contact them. 
Howard said she made a follow-up 
call to CPS, but was told the informa
tion was confidential. Schroeder said 
she had already been interviewed by 
the agency.
Kowalka said this is the only alle
gation of its kind he has seen in the 
six years he has been at UH.
World Wire
Kissing couples could 
face fines in Moscow
MOSCOW (AP)  Dont kiss and tell  and 
certainly dont tell the police in Moscow, 
where city authorities are reportedly consid
ering levying fines for public displays of affec
tion.
As part of an effort to improve morals in 
the Russian capital, the government is work
ing on an order that would prohibit kissing in 
subways and other public places, the newspa
per Stolichnaya Vechernyaya Gazeta reported 
on its Web site. It said the ban was being con
sidered at the request of police and the citys 
education committee.
Children do not need any sexual education 
classes in school ... they get amoral lessons 
every day when they see what goes on around 
them, the newspaper quoted committee 
member Tatyana Maximova as saying. 
People are making out even on the escalator 
in the metro. Something must be done about 
this.
Its not uncommon for couples to kiss on 
the long, slow escalators leading down to 
Moscows subway platforms  the steps 
allow people of different heights to gaze 
directly into each others faces, and it beats 
looking at advertisements during the ride. 
But the embraces are mostly reserved and few 
people seemed to object  at least until now.
According to Stolichnaya Vechernyaya 
Gazeta, fines for breaking the rules, if they are 
adopted, would range from 300 to 500 rubles 
($10 to $17). And if the kissing couples didnt 
have the money, the paper reported, police 
could hold them at the precinct house until 
somebody paid.
It said the same order would target other 
potentially offensive and perhaps equally 
common public behavior, including drinking 
alcohol, loud cursing, drunkenness, and spit
ting.
City officials and police were not available 
for comment late Sunday on the report of the 
potential ban, which drew criticism from 
prominent human rights activist Valeriya
Novodvorskaya, who said a kissing ban would 
be Orwellian and vowed to violate it as 
often as possible if it is enacted.
If this is not a joke and the mayors office 
is indeed drafting such a resolution, I will 
start spending my days kissing in public 
places  just out of principle, 
Novodvorskaya told Echo of Moscow radio 
after the report appeared last week.
She said she would urge other Muscovites 
to do the same.
Al-Qaeda suspected in 
recent attack in Riyadh
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia (AP)  Saudi offi
cials pointed to al-Qaeda terrorists Sunday as 
responsible for a suicide car bombing that 
devastated a Riyadh housing complex, killing 
at least 11 people and wounding more than 
120.
Rubble, broken glass, splintered furniture 
and charred, twisted hunks of metal covered 
the scene of Saturdays attack, in which mili
tants  possibly disguised as police  shot 
their way into the compound in the upscale 
neighborhood before detonating at least one 
vehicle packed with explosives. The attack 
was similar in style to a deadly suicide bomb
ing of another Riyadh housing complex in 
May, also blamed on al-Qaeda.
The Saudi Interior Ministry said the 11 
dead included Saudis, Lebanese, Sudanese, 
and Egyptians, among them four children, 
the kingdoms official news agency said.
Among the dead were four Lebanese  two 
women, a 6-year-old boy and a 4-year-old girl 
 and four Egyptians  a couple and their 
two sons  according to their countries 
embassies in Riyadh.
The Interior Ministry said 86 people were 
wounded, mostly women and children. Four 
U.S. citizens were among the wounded, the 
ministry said. In Washington, State 
Department spokeswoman Amanda Batt said 
some Americans were treated for minor 
injuries and released.
The streets were crowded at the time of the 
bombing because of the holy month of 
Ramadan, now in its third week, when 
Muslims fast during the day and have dinners 
and parties late into the night.
NatLonWire
Dean to forgo taxpayer 
funds for his campaign
BURLINGTON, Vt. (AP)  Front-runner 
Howard Dean became on Saturday the first 
Democratic presidential candidate ever to 
reject taxpayer money and avoid the accompa
nying spending limits, saying he had to act to 
compete against President Bushs cash-rich 
campaign.
We have supported public financing, but 
the unabashed actions of this president to 
undercut our democratic process with floods 
of special interest money have forced us to 
abandon a broken system, the former 
Vermont governor said at a news conference.
By eschewing public money, Dean can 
spend unlimited amounts for the nomination 
and, if successful, through the summer before 
the general election season starts.
So can Bush, who has no Republican oppo
nent. The president already has said he will go 
without public funds, as he did in the 2000 
GOP primaries when he raised a record $ 100- 
plus million.
That makes the 2004 race the first in which 
candidates from both major parties will forgo 
the Watergate-era public financing system.
Dean and his staff said he would consider 
limiting his spending in the primaries to the 
$45 million that would be available if he were 
accepting public financing, but no decision 
had been made.
We just gave up almost $20 million, so we 
have to raise that money before we even have 
a discussion about it, Dean said later in the 
day.
Dean, the first 2004 hopeful to qualify for 
public money by raising $5000 in each of 20 
states in donations of $250 or less, told The 
Associated Press last March that he was com
mitted to taking it, in part because he believed 
in an overhaul of the campaign finance sys
tem.
He began to rethink that plan over the sum
mer after his campaign saw an unprecedented 
flood of contributions over the Internet.
Some Democrats were quick to note the
turnabout.
Governor Dean was saying what a democ
ratic principle it is to have campaign finance 
reform and what a big issue it Would be if 
someone stepped outside, Kerry said 
Saturday in Manchester, N.H.
Dean made his decision based on a hightech tally of 600,000 supporters, whom he 
asked to vote by e-mail, Internet, telephone or 
regular mail through Friday.
Dean said 85 percent of those who weighed 
in 105,000, according to campaign officials 
 urged him to opt out.
Candidates who accept public dollars in the 
primaries can get up to $18.7 million in tax
payer money but are limited to about $45 mil
lion in spending.
Toddler thought dead 
is revived, responsive
FULLERTON, Calif. (AP)  A toddler who 
was revived nearly two hours after she was 
believed to have drowned and 40 minutes 
after doctors had declared her dead was 
responding to touch and sound, hospital offi
cials said.
Twenty-month-old Mackayala Jespersen 
was in critical condition but responsive on 
Saturday, a day after she was found in her 
familys swimming pool, said Childrens 
Hospital of Orange County spokeswoman 
Denise Almazan.
The little girls family thanked the public for 
their prayers and support, Almazan said.
Mackayalas mother found her floating face 
down in the backyard pool Friday morning, 
police Sgt. Sean Fares said. Police and para
medics tried to revive her and rushed her to 
Anahehn Memorial Medical Center, where 
doctors pronounced her dead.
Forty minutes later, police Detective Mike 
Kendrick was conducting a routine investiga
tion into the death when he noticed 
Mackayalas chest was moving.
He summoned doctors, who were able to 
revive her.
It was a very emotional moment for every
one, said Fullerton Police spokesman Sgt. 
Ron Gillett. We thought she didnt make it 
and then she did. It was the lowest of the lows 
and the highest of the highs.
Hepatitis outbreak 
claims first victim
PITTSBURGH (AP)  A man hospi
talized with complications from a 
hepatitis A outbreak that has infected 
more than 185 people has died, hospital 
officials said.
The man, one of five people hospital
ized in the outbreak, died Friday night, 
less than a week after Pennsylvania 
health officials announced cases of the 
infectious liver disease apparently 
linked to a Chi-Chis restaurant at the 
Beaver Valley Mall, about 25 miles 
northwest of Pittsburgh.
Susan Manko, a spokeswoman for the 
University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, 
declined to release further information 
about the patient.
State health officials had confirmed 
more than 185 cases of the infectious 
liver disease, most from Pennsylvania.
Unlike the more serious variants, 
hepatitis B and C, which are generally 
spread by intravenous drug use or risky 
sexual behaviors, hepatitis A is spread 
by eating something contaminated with 
the feces of someone with hepatitis A, 
according to the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention. Food-borne 
outbreaks generally involve fresh veg
etables or other uncooked foods han
dled by a contaminated person, but the 
disease is relatively rare.
Symptoms of hepatitis A include 
fever, nausea, diarrhea, jaundice, 
fatigue, abdominal pain and loss of 
appetite. The disease usually clears up 
in about two months.
While the number of cases is at a his
toric low, outbreaks have occurred 
throughout the nation. In September, 
about 280 people in Georgia and 
Tennessee were sickened by contami
nated green onions, including 210 peo
ple who ate at restaurants in the Atlanta 
area.
At least four people remained hospi
talized Friday, some in critical condi
tion, according to the University of 
Pittsburgh Medical Center.
On Friday, Chi-Chis said it regretted 
the outbreak and is working with state 
health officials to pinpoint the cause. 
The restaurant has remained closed.
Officials do not believe anyone delib
erately contaminated food or the 
restaurant, Health Department 
spokesman Richard McGarvey said.
Firefighters willing 
to close five stations
PITTSBURGH (AP)  The citys fire
fighters union said Wednesday that it is 
willing to allow five fire stations to be 
closed to help the city whittle down 
budget deficits during the next two 
years.
Officials with the Pittsburgh Fire 
Fighters Local No. 1 said they would ask 
members to approve shuttering the five 
stations, trimming 100 jobs, and saving 
the city $10 million in the next two 
years. The union also said it offered fur
ther savings from health insurance and 
scheduling.
In return, the union is seeking a fiveyear extension of the contract members 
approved just before the last Mays mayoral primary. That pact gave senior fire
fighters annual pay raises of almost 9 
percent and guaranteed that no further 
firefighters would lose their jobs and no 
more stations would be closed.
Pittsburgh Mayor Tom Murphy has 
been pressuring the firefighters union 
to agree to a merger between the citys 
fire and paramedic services that would 
close at least ten of the citys 35 fire sta
tions. Murphy said the move could save 
the city $7.5 million this year and $15 
million next year.
Robert Kennedy, director of city oper
ations, said the proposal from the fire
fighters union would not remotely 
approach $10 million.
It appears to be an attempt to hood
wink the public and the media into 
believing that a good-faith effort is 
being made by the union, Kennedy 
said, adding that firefighters have too 
many stations, too much equipment 
and too many employees.
Kennedy said, however, that the city 
would consider the offer and will 
respond within a week.
Officials have said that Pittsburgh 
faces a $40 million deficit this year that 
could grow to $85 million next year.
Man shot at a party 
for slain friend dies
PITTSBURGH (AP)  A 20-year-old 
man died after being shot in the head 
while attending a party celebrating the 
life of a slain friend, police said.
Marcus Sewell was shot early 
Saturday while attending the party in a 
Pittsburgh rowhouse to honor the life of 
Ronald Holland, 19, who was shot to 
death Sept. 9 in a van. Sewell died at 
Allegheny General Hospital.
The tragedy is that both homicides 
are unsolved and there were friends, 
who either know who did it or saw it, 
who arent talking, Pittsburgh police 
Cmdr. Maurita Bryant said.
The Allegheny County coroners 
office reported that Sewell got into a 
fight because another partygoer wore 
the same clothing, but police say they 
have no such report and dont know the 
motive for the shooting.

---------------------------------------------------

Now you can get MOVIES IN MINUTES at Movielink, the leading
broadband movie delivery service. Download top quality movie files to watch 
at home or on the road. No subscription, no late fees and no spyware.
COLLEGE.MOVIELINK.COM
the USAe
Movielink
2003 Movielink, LLC. *Limited time offer. Terms and conditions apply. See college.movielink.com for dtails.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  NOVEMBER 10, 2003
USSA vote 
fails again 
in Senate
USSA, from page A1
percent of the students he 
approached concerning the petition 
signed it and the ones who did not 
sign said that they needed to research 
the organization more before signing.
Senator James Hazelrig, a junior in 
materials science, voted in favor of 
the referendum.
Hazelrig said he did not vote in 
favor of the referendum because he 
wants CMU to join the USSA, but 
because he is an idealist and believes 
in true democracy.
Whether or not they understood 
what they were signing, the fact that 
they signed it means that they should 
have had the opportunity to vote, 
said Hazelrig.
Kling, who voted against the 
motion both times, said he 
researched the USSA more thorough
ly after the first vote and concluded, 
among other things, that the diversity 
guidelines for USSA delegations to 
their national convention were ques
tionable.
The USSA doesnt have a complete 
listing of its [member schools].... It 
seems a little suspicious, said Kling.
Kling also warned against affiliat
ing CMU with an organization which 
he says takes specific political stances 
on issues.
When they become that political, 
theres a significant fraction of cam
pus who wouldnt agree, so we 
shouldnt obligate all students to join 
such a group, he said.
; Michaels-Ober also said that the 
political views of certain Senators 
should not deny the students the 
opportunity to make this decision for 
themselves.
Senators are elected on platforms 
of ability, not personal politics, said 
Michaels-Ober.
Although the second defeat means 
that his measure is dead for the rest of 
Senates session, Michaels-Ober 
remains determined to continue his 
effort. He said that he is now organiz
ing a CMU chapter of the USSA and 
that his first meeting is on the 
November 19.
 Right now Im working on putting 
together the bylaws, and at the first 
meeting well vote on officers, said 
Michaels-Ober.
PICOLA project here at CMU
PICOLA, from page A1
said that within nine months of the 
meeting, CMU has built software 
capable of doing this and plans to use 
the tool for the first time in a nation
al regional deliberative poll to be 
held in the Carnegie Libraries on 
January 24, 2004. Americas role in 
the world is the expected topic. Due 
to his interest in the project, he made 
it a main theme for the lectures and 
seminars for students enrolled in the 
new Humanities Scholars Program 
(HSP). HSP is a four-year, interdisci
plinary, research-driven program 
open to H&SS applicants by invita
tion, and is only open to 20 first-year 
students per year.
I cant believe nobody thought 
about it before, said Gerrit Betz, HSP 
first-year student. Nowadays, peo
ple go to work, come home, watch 
TV, and have no real political opin
ions, or just watch the news, which is 
short and biased. Its amazing 
because democracy is so passive and 
this would make more it more active. 
People would be more involved in a 
decision. After this process, if a per
son said I believe topic A is good or 
bad, there would be some meaning 
behind it. This would make legisla
tion more effective.
Despite being in its early stage, 
PICOLA produces an online environ
ment for community consultation 
and problem solving using video, 
audio, and textual communication 
while still producing results similar to 
previous face-to-face deliberative 
polls. PICOLA uses software known 
as Delibera, which is funded by the 
National Science Foundation. PICO
LA has added a feature where sub
jects are allowed to add a small pho
tograph of themselves, which would 
allow others to determine the sub
jects demographics, such as gender 
or race. PICOLA allows users to use 
emoticons and other similar features 
to get the attention of other users or 
hold the floor.
According to Cavalier, there are 
obstacles PICOLA has to overcome in 
spite of its accomplishments.
One of the advantages of our soft
ware tools is that they do not disad
vantage those who lack typing skills 
because the main of mode of commu
nication is through audio, said 
Cavalier. Nevertheless, there are 
current obstacles to delivering the 
full-featured multimedia version [of 
PICOLA] to the population at large 
because [this current version of 
PICOLA] requires a DSL connection. 
In the future, however, we foresee 
this kind of bandwidth becoming 
more and more available, through, 
for example, wireless technologies. 
These technologies are currently 
available in commercial outlets as 
diverse as Starbucks and 
McDonalds.
[At the last national conference,] 
we discussed issues in building soft
ware of this nature and the certain 
problems, such as bandwidth limita
tions, said Prather. We discussed 
how to build software without ostra
cizing someone who has limited com
puter knowledge, which would bias 
the whole survey. One question 
would have been How do you build 
software that can bring anyone from 
90-year-old grandmother to college 
student? We try to make sure tech
nology is not a barrier for producing 
objective results.
Greeks affected by new housing
GREEKS, from page A1
fraternities from Student Life.
Furthermore, first-years face 
another housing restriction.
For first-year students, however, 
there is an additional permission that 
is required.... First-year students are 
required to live in regular campus 
housing. Any exception to that at any 
time during the first year must be 
granted by the Dean of Student 
Affairs, said Michael.
However, some fraternities man
aged to house their first-year broth
ers this fall.
Bryan Alexander, a first-year in 
business administration and Sigma 
Nu pledge, was able to get a partial 
refund for his previous housing and 
meal plans.
I didnt know I would join the frat 
until I was in the third week of 
school. So I couldnt get a full refund. 
I got a refund minus a month or more 
and then a deduction for changing 
plans, he said.
Other methods for pledges to move 
into the house would be for the fra
ternities to allow them to stay for 
free.
We would not have refunded any 
housing fees to first-year students
who moved. I suspect that many of 
the fraternities let these new mem
bers live there for free or through 
some other compensation arrange
ment, said Michael.
Kappa Sigma, Alpha Epsilon Pi, 
and Phi Kappa Theta declined to 
answer questions about first-year liv
ing in the house. Also, there are a 
handful of fraternities that have 
clearly stated that they do not pro
vide free housing.
Stephen Kubinski, president of 
Kappa Delta Rho, said, We do not 
have any freshmen living in the house 
since we dont offer free housing. In 
past years, we were allowed new res
idents when people graduated in 
December; then, people who wished 
to move to the house were allowed to 
break the housing agreement. But, 
since students arent allowed a 
refund any more, it would be too 
expensive to pay for two rooms.
Comfortable rooms and a house 
cook are some of the amenities that 
make living in the fraternities appeal
ing to all brothers, including firstyears. According to Kenichi Egbuna, a 
Delta Upsilon brother and a sopho
more in CS, the main reason is to 
become an integral part of the frater
nity.
Fraternity housing is great 
because we can build in the rooms, 
said Egbuna.
Even though first-year housing 
contracts have, in essence, remained 
the same from year to year, their 
practices have changed with the con
struction of New House.
[Letting first-years break their 
HLA is] pretty smart if you think 
about it though because it gets the 
freshmen to become part of the house 
quicker and increases the likelihood 
that they will move in officially in the 
fall, said Kubinski.
Michael Murphy, dean of Student 
Affairs, said that essentially, all resi
dents would have to pay for the flexi
bility in the housing plan to allow stu
dents to break housing contracts in 
favor of Greek housing.
To some degree, you always plan 
for a little softness coming into 
August, said Murphy, but the cost to 
non-Greek residents would be 
reflected in readjusting to allow for 
first-year Greek move-ins. He said 
that it would be best for Greeks to fill 
their houses with non-first-years, and 
that non-Greek residents would have 
to agree to allowing for flexibility for 
Greeks, through Student Dormitory 
Council.
A SUITE FOR LESS THAN 
A HOTEL ROOM
i Elegantly furnished one- or two-bedroom apartment suites include an equipped kitchen, 
fluffy linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking.
jiI Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two blocks from Walnut Street s i145 fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CMU/Pitt/Hospitals.
! DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
i FREE HIGH-SPEED INTERNET ACCESS*
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232
| (412) 441-4444
; http://www.shadysideinn.com
! *Internet access avaialable in most two-bedroom and Mansion Suites
Freaks shows to be 
discussed in lecture
Michael Chemers will give a lecture tomorrow about how freaks have affect
ed American society and culture.
FREAKS, from page A1
to our societys current views of 
disabled people. Chemers said that 
a number of people complain 
about his work, but the complaints 
that he pays closest attention to are 
those that say he is not helping dis
abled people now. Otherwise, he 
said, he is only satisfying his own 
prurient interests, and that is not 
his goal.
According to director of the 
Center, Judith Modell, the Center 
received approximately 60 applica
tions for this year.
There were strong choices [in] 
selection, said Modell, adding 
that she was very pleased with 
Chemers work. I've heard that
hes a terrific teacher. [When a 
post-doctoral fellow is] as good in 
the classroom as he seems to be, its 
a real bonus.... [The] primary 
focus is on the research.
The feelings were mutual on 
Chemers part. He greatly appreci
ated the ability to continue his 
research with all the support the 
University has to offer.
Its a real gift; I love it, he said.
The Center for the Arts in 
Societys goals are to make a con
nection between the artists in CFA 
and the humanists in H&SS, help 
with community-based projects, 
and to bring visiting scholars to 
Carnegie Mellon to provide a fresh 
perspective on the role of art in a 
changing society.
Student questions Microsoft EULA
Wanted 
Until Tl
MM flMM S I i
Forum Editor 
Assistant Editors
Tartan Staffwriters 
Special Projects Manager 
Interested?
tartan@andrew.cmu.edu
Windows with Dell computers, and 
that the court should interpret a 
clause in Microsofts EULA to force a 
refund. The clause says,If you do not 
agree to the terms of this EULA (EndUser License Agreement for 
Software), then you will not be 
licensed for the SOFTWARE PROD
UCT^). In such event, you may not 
use or copy the SOFTWARE PROD
UCT, and you should promptly con
tact Manufacturer for instructions on 
return of the product(s) for a 
refund.
I would challenge the validity of 
implicitly forcing you to agree to 
licensing agreements by opening a 
box, buying something, or without 
having a chance to read the agree
ment itself, said Saretsky.
A Dell representative said that it 
was impossible to purchase a Dell 
without Microsoft XP. However, he 
conceded that once you had the com
puter, you would be able to install 
any system you liked.
At this point I had done what I 
wanted with the computer and it did
nt seem worth the legal effort, he 
said. However, according to 
California small-claim plaintiff Steve 
Oualline in the Linux Journal, At 
some point in this process youll 
either get your refund (rare) or youll 
realize the manufacturer is going to 
be totally unreasonable. So now is 
the time to present your argument to 
an unbiased third party who has the 
power to get you your refund. This 
person is a small claims court judge.
DELL, from page A1
Saretsky that the company did not 
want to alienate the open-source 
community, and that they would 
refund him $100. The representative 
encouraged him to post to electronic 
bulletin boards and let the communi
ty know that Dell was reasonable in 
dealing with these types of com
plaints. The total cost of the laptop 
was about $1200.
Saretskys problem, according to 
several small claims cases, is not 
unique. Chad Pennington, in a case in 
California, claimed that the Sherman 
Antitrust Act, with clauses against 
tying the sale of one product to 
another, prohibits Microsoft and Dell 
from requiring the purchase of

---------------------------------------------------

SunnyCedge
{Boutique Ho tei (Restaurant ^Martini (Bar
CeCeBrate the season at Sunny [edge!
Wouldn't it be festive to celebrate the holidays in one of Pittsburgh's most magnificently 
restored historic mansions? Elegantly decorated for the holidays, Sunnyledge is the perfect 
venue for private parties and events for those who enjoy fine dining and impeccable service, as 
well as the architecture and charm of a 19th Century mansion.
presents
E-mail highschool-ambassadors@andrew.cmu.edu for more information!
*The High School Ambassadors program is an informal program through which current high 
school students can gain a new perspective on life at Carnegie Mellon. Our High School 
Ambassadors are current undergraduate students who go back to their high school and visit 
with teachers and students to talk about their experiences at Carnegie Mellon University.
2003. A detailed description of award guidelines is available at 
http://www.hss.cmu.edu/aac/eds.pdf
(Dinner Luncheons Afternoon Tea Cocktaitatherings 
(Private (Dining (Facifities _Avaifa6ie
arng Nvlb9w 28V3cV Nil99ducm/w Ni2 ranMn grnfS-Mfa4rg
(((fdI30lV1./Vf1s3l
Take Carnegie Mellon with 
you everywhere you go...
Become a High School Ambassador with 
the Office of Undergradute Admissions and 
let students from your high school know 
about your experiences at Carnegie Mellon
ATTENTION: STUDENTS WHO HAVE TAKEN 
ONE OR MORE COURSES WITH AN H&SS 
FACULTY MEMBER
The H&SS Deans Office invites you to nominate H&SS faculty members 
for the Colleges 2003-2004 Elliott Dunlap Smith Award for 
Distinguished Teaching and Educational Service. Past winners of this 
award include:
2003 Silvia Borzutzky, Social and Decision Sciences
2002 Robert Cavalier, Philosophy
2001 Daniel Resnick, History
2000 G. Richard Tucker, Modern Languages
1999 Peggy Knapp, English
1998 Paul Fischbeck, Social and Decision Sciences
1997 James Daniels, English
1996 Eugene Levy, History
1995 John Miller, Social and Decision Sciences
1994 Michael West, Modem Languages
1993 Richard Young, English
1992 Peter Steams, History
1991 Ann Hayes, English
1990 Margaret Clark, Psychology (1990 University Ryan Award Co-Winner) 
1989 Richard Smith, Social and Decision Sciences
1988 Richard Schoenwald, History (1989 University Ryan Award Winner)
1987 Joel Greenhouse, Statistics (1987 University Ryan Award Winner)
1986 Ludwig Schaefer, History (1986 University Ryan Award Co-Winner)
1985 Lois Fowler, English
1984 Steven Klepper, Social and Decision Sciences
1983 Preston Covey, Philosophy
1982 Michael Weber, History (1983 University Ryan Award Winner)
1981 John R. Hayes, Psychology
1980 Granville Jones, English (1980 University Ryan Award Winner)
Nominations should consist of a letter (2 pages maximum, signed by any 
three faculty, students or staff), submitted to Dr. Joseph Devine, Associate 
Dean of H&SS, Baker Hall A57. Nomination deadline: December 8.
GET YOUR TICKETS NOW!
Venue : University Center 
Date : Week of Nov. 6th 
Presale Ticket Prices : $7- Members 
$1 o - Non Members
Venue 1 Rangos Ballroom
Carnegie Mellon University 
Date Saturday, November 15 2003 
Time -6:00 p.m
DINNER : INDIAN CUISINE, UC

---------------------------------------------------

Students in the General Robotics class (24-354) built robots that can locate sur
vivors in buildings that have collapsed. At the Urban Search and Rescue Lab 
Demonstration Day, Matt Rosa, a TA and mechanical engineering senior, pre
pares a robot to run the course that simulates the collapsed building.
IO November 2003 THE TARTAN Page A6
How Tunes, Napster 2.0, and Musicmatch stack up
Computing Services tackles printing
Printing Discovery Project works to identify the worst offenders, seeks input from student focus groups
How Things Work: Polaroids
by Alex Meseguer
News Editor
Napster 2.0, Musicmatch, and 
iTunes, oh my! The recent wave of 
online music stores has finally offered 
denizens of the Internet a standard
ized way of purchasing music online. 
The craze began when Apple launched 
the Windows version of its iTunes 
Music Store on October 20, selling a 
well-publicized million songs in less 
than four days.
The new music stores share many 
features, and at first glance, they all 
appear the same. Delving deeper into 
their unique features and interfaces 
reveals subtle but important differ
ences that separate the coasters from 
the rest.
All of them let you buy music with 
the click of a button at $0.99 per track 
and $10 per album. iTunes goes the 
extra step to provide a shopping cart, 
preventing accidental purchasing and 
letting the customers edit their gro
cery list of music before they make an 
non-refundable purchase.
All purchases are final with all the 
services, although you can resume a 
dropped download with relatively lit
tle hassle. Despite a 30-second pre
view offered by all three services, if 
that last Yanni track you just bought 
does not tickle your pickle as much as 
you had hoped, you are out of luck. All 
the services also offer Amazon.comlike suggestions based on your past 
purchases and sometimes even based 
on the music in your library.
They say size matters not, yet 
according to www.cdfreaks.com, 
Napster boasts the largest collection, 
with a claimed 500,000-song data
base. iTunes takes a close second, with 
a reported 400,000 songs, while 
Musicmatch lags behind with 
250,000. Despite the huge databases, 
music by certain groups, like the 
Beatles, is still not available for pur
chase online.
Choice may be moot if digital media 
rights restrictions make it nearly 
impossible to transfer music from 
place to place or to the portable music 
player you just spent several hundred 
thousand pretty pennies on. In this 
regard, the services also appear mostly 
the same, although Apple is the 
notable exception. Both Musicmatch 
and Napster 2.0 provide music in the 
RIAA-friendly, but annoying, secure 
Windows Media Audio (WMA) format. 
Secure WMA is playable only by a rela
tively short list of software and on sim
ilarly few portable music players, but it 
has a huge advantage over Apples 
AAC format, which is accessible exclu
sively by iTunes and the iPod.
Slashdot has reported that Apple is 
actually losing money on its music 
sales and is using the service as an 
incentive for users to purchase expen
sive iPods.
Notice how none of the services use
the uber-popular MP3 format. The 
RIAA would hardly have given online 
music a second thought if some sort of 
digital rights management was not 
built into whatever format the music 
stores distributed content in. 
Otherwise, they would be giving file 
sharers a cheap and professional-quality source of instantly sharable files. 
Without copy protection, dozens of 
people could band together and buy 
massive numbers of songs for pennies 
each and instantly share them with 
everyone.
All the services allow the music you 
buy to be played on three different 
computers at a time, and allow unlim
ited burning of songs to audio CDs. 
The trick here is that with Napster and 
iTunes, you are only allowed to burn a 
given playlist a certain number of 
times. In the real world, you would 
likely not have to burn very many 
copies of the same playlist, so Apples 
advantage of ten playlist burns over 
Napsters five is pretty negligible.
Software interfaces can make a pro
gram either a pleasure or a pain to use. 
In this category, iTunes is a healthy cut 
above the rest, offering a brushed 
metal faceplate along with a 
superbly organized and balanced lay
out. The iTunes Music Store is seam
lessly integrated into its brilliantly fullfeatured player, which caused this 
long-time Winamp user to switch. The 
players that Napster 2.0 and 
Musicmatch offer up do not even come 
close to the clean execution Apple has 
brought to the music player world.
The only major complaint I have 
about iTunes is the lack of support for 
skins and the major omission of an 
always on top option for its mini
window form.
Musicmatchs music service is inte
grated in a manner that makes it seem 
like an afterthought, while Napster 2.0 
can hardly be called a player, but 
rather a paltry shell for its music store 
feature, worthy only of previewing the 
songs you just bought.
Miscellaneous features often break 
the tie between comparable products, 
although in this case they do not factor 
much into deciding which service is 
right for you. iTunes offers audio 
books in addition to its music collec
tion. Napster 2.0 features a sizable col
lection of music videos to accompany 
their tracks. Musicmatch and Napster 
2.0 also offer customizable streaming 
radio.
In the end, I cannot recommend 
iTunes to anyone who already owns a 
non-iPod music player, as Apple is only 
using its customers as tools to push 
their overpriced music player. 
However, I also cannot recommend 
Napster 2.0 or Musicmatch to anyone 
who already owns an iPod. The only 
things that I can say for sure are that 
Musicmatch is not the way to go, and 
that you should base your decision of 
which service to use on what portable 
music player you have.
Bum Lee/Art Editor
Some students have voiced that they would 
like to get printouts of lectures from the professor 
during class rather than having to go to 
Blackboard and print them out, said Jack Wu, a 
sophomore in computer science and a Student 
Senator who spoke with Computing Services. I 
think that is a great idea because the burden of 
printing gets shifted from cluster printing to 
department printing.
As part of the effort to determine how students 
use the printers, Computing Services began log
ging data from the printers in September. This 
will allow the Printing Discovery Project to assess 
which clusters are being used the most, when the 
peak use times are, what files are printed the 
most often, and other similar statistics.
The data recorded include the name of the file 
being printed, the students username and IP 
address, and the time of the print job, according 
to Alex Lang, a user analyst in the User Outreach 
and Analysis group.
The top 20 percent of [printer users] printed 
65 percent of the printing, said Lang, who added 
that Microsoft Word files are the most commonly 
printed files. However, the data may have some 
gaps from when the logging software temporarily 
stopped working due to glitches, and cannot yet 
be used to draw representative conclusions about 
student printing.
According to William Beegle, a technical ser
vices consultant in Computing Services, there is a 
pause of less than five seconds in between print 
jobs for the logging software to record data. 
However, because of the logging, we dont send 
the next job to the printer until weve received the 
accounting information from the current job, 
wrote Beegle in an e-mail. This may cause print
ers to process jobs less efficiently.
At the beginning of this semester, students 
encountered more problems than usual due to 
several changes in the printing system.
This semester, Computing Services instituted a 
new policy that removed students ability to print
to campus printers from dorms and off-campus 
apartments. This was done in an attempt to 
reduce printing waste, since it was believed that 
many students printed from their dorms and then 
forgot to pick up the printouts. However, based 
on talks with cluster managers and other stu
dents, Computing Services has found that the 
policy has not seemed to reduce printing waste.
Wu felt that the restriction of printing to cam
pus clusters was a problem.
The convenience of being able to print from 
my room is a great time saver, he said. Clusters 
are mainly used for teaching purposes, with the 
exception of the clusters in the dorms, so at many 
times the clusters are full or not open for walking 
in.
The printing process for Windows cluster com
puters was altered this semester. In order to make 
it easier to manage printer configurations in 
Windows, the computers now first send the print 
job to a separate computer with a distribution 
(DIST) queue, which then forwards the print job 
to the appropriate printer.
However, early in the semester, users noticed 
that print jobs from Windows computers some
times seemed to disappear or get stuck in the 
DIST queue. According to Mike Kelleher, a field 
consultant for Computing Services, this occurred 
because all of the printers were converted to a dif
ferent spooler software over the summer, and the 
software (an open-source product called LPRng) 
had a bug that resulted in slowdowns in the print 
queues. The bug was later fixed, but while it 
remained, Windows print jobs got stuck or 
delayed in the DIST queue.
We got into a situation where people were 
printing to the DIST queues faster than jobs could 
get cleared to the UNIX spoolers, wrote Kelleher. 
The buggy spooler software sometimes caused 
jobs to time out and be discarded, confusing 
users, who would then sometimes print to multi
ple printers.
Computing Services plans to conduct a campus-wide sampled survey of students in midNovember. This survey is intended to provide a 
better picture of how students use campus print
ers and what their needs are.
Given the currently problematic state of print
ing, some major changes will have to be made, 
and may involve restrictions on printing.
Quotas are probably going to be the way we 
go, said Kafantaris. She stressed, however, that 
they are not yet making decisions on what course 
to take, and there are a number of possible 
options.
In order to implement quotas, the printers 
would have to be switched to an authenticated 
printing system in which users need to verify 
their identity to be able to print.
With authenticated printing, Computing 
Services could place a quota on the number of 
pages a student is allowed to print, or charge 
money for pages printed in excess of the quota. 
Authenticated printing might also allow 
Computing Services to restore the ability to print 
from dorms.
According to the current schedule for the 
Printing Discovery Project, the group plans to 
choose a solution in January 2004.
Editors Note: John Davin participated in one of 
the printing focus groups.
As high-quality digital cameras 
become less expensive and more 
ubiquitous, it is easy to forget 
about the fancy chemistry on 
which we used to rely for our pic
tures.
If you are not a professional pho
tographer, it may have been a 
while since the last time you saw a 
negative. Film developing is a fas
cinating and involved process that 
requires a lot of different special
ized chemicals, especially for color 
film.
When Edwin Lands daughter 
asked him in 1944 why she had to 
wait to see a photo that was just 
taken, Land set off to develop a 
process that would produce photos 
without the traditional developing 
process.
In 1948, his company, Polaroid, 
debuted the first instant develop
ing process. This process was 
adapted for color in 1963, and by 
1972, Polaroid had developed the 
fully-automatic instant camera, 
still widely used by police, insur
ance adjusters, doctors, and others 
who need instant hard-copy photo
graphic documentation.
Film in general works by expos
ing light-sensitive particles to light 
for a brief period of time so that 
they react to the patterns of light 
that make up an image.
Black and white film has one 
layer of these particles, and color 
film has three layers  one layer 
responds to red light, one layer 
responds to green light, and one 
layer responds to blue light.
The first step of the developing 
process involves treatment of the 
film with a chemical that turns the 
light-sensitive particles silver and 
prepares them for reaction with 
chemicals called dye couplers.
icals.
The dye couplers are each stored 
in a layer directly below the layer 
of light-sensitive particles with 
which theyre meant to react.
After the reagent moves through 
a light-sensitive layer, developing 
it, it dissolves the dye coupler in 
the next layer, which reacts with 
the partially-developed light-sensi
tive particles and completes devel
opment of that layer. The result of 
that reaction is that the three pri
mary-color components of your 
photo ooze up through the layers 
and attach themselves to whats 
known as the image layer, right 
above where the reagent initially 
came on the scene.
Within a few seconds, the image 
layer contains the developed pic
ture. But the chemicals from the 
reagent that worked their way up 
through the film have made it 
opaque to protect it while it was 
being developed, so you cant see 
your photo.
To make the upper layers clear 
again, the uppermost one contains 
an acid that reacts with the reagent 
chemicals to eliminate their opaci
ty. Between the image layer and 
the acid layer is whats known as 
the timing layer.
As its name implies, its just 
there to slow down the reagents 
migration toward the acid, to 
ensure that the film has more than 
enough time to develop before the 
upper layers become transparent 
again.
And thats it. In less time than it 
took you to read this article, your 
photo has been developed, with no 
need for a darkroom or a separate 
printing process. Pretty neat, eh?
Well, not neat enough to prevent 
Polaroid from declaring bankrupt
cy in 2001, in the face of stiff com
petition from digital cameras, but 
its still a pretty cool chemical 
process that you can hold in your 
hand.
Dollars for downloads?
by John Davin
Contributing Editor
Campus printing is a recurring frustration for 
students. Its not uncommon to see printer queues 
longer than a six-year-olds Christmas list.
Print jobs get lost, paper jams hold up queues, 
and students use up more and more reams of 
paper each year. The problem is so complex that 
no one really knows how to solve it yet.
However, Computing Services has now com
mitted to assessing the campus printing systems 
problems. Computing Services has started the 
Printing Discovery Project, which aims to deter
mine what students complaints with printing are 
and to assess possible solutions.
According to Suzanne Kafantaris, a user ana
lyst in the User Outreach and Analysis group, the 
amount of money spent on campus printing has 
risen in the past two years.
Cluster managers were telling us that they 
were throwing away half of the stuff that print
ed, said Kafantaris. If students knew that half of 
the paper being printed is being thrown away, I 
think they would be really concerned.
The Printing Discovery Project has been gath
ering input on printing through several student 
groups. Project members held a focus group with 
cluster managers in September. In early October, 
members held another focus group, consisting of 
students who were contacted through different 
academic departments by e-mail. Computing 
Services also spoke with representatives from 
Senates Campus Life committee regarding print
ing issues.
Something weve heard a lot is that people 
dont know how to cancel print jobs, said 
Kafantaris.
Students in Octobers student focus group 
reported printing a great deal of material from 
Blackboard, including lengthy documents and 
even entire textbook chapters.
tive and developed slide film 
becomes the finished slide.
As you may have guessed, the 
process that goes on in an instant 
camera is more like slide film 
because the colors arent inverted 
in your instant pictures. The film 
for the instant camera contains the 
whole developing process in a 
series of layers.
The wider border on the bottom 
of a Polaroid photo is there for a
Jeff Cullers/Photo Editor
rollers. The reagent also makes the 
photo opaque when it gets 
squeezed out between the layers  
thats important because if the 
light-sensitive particles in the film 
were exposed to any more light, 
the photo would be ruined. As the 
reagent seeps down through the 
light-sensitive layers of the film, it 
serves as the first developer chem
ical and turns the light-sensitive 
particles silver, preparing them for 
exposure to the dye coupler chemCourtesy of Apple
There are three different dye cou
plers, each of which reacts with 
one set of light-sensitive particles. 
The nature of the reaction is slight
ly different in slide film and print 
film  thats why developed print 
film is a negareason  thats where the chemi
cal that starts the reaction is stored 
until the picture is taken. That 
chemical, known as the reagent, 
gets squeezed between the layers 
of the film when the photo is ini
tially ejected from the camera 
through a pair of

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan Elections are coming.
corner
118 Meyran Ave,
around
around the
great student fares!
packages from Pittsburgh starting at
CALL COQ1.800.733.6347
Book before Dec 15th and $ave!! 
Sell trips, earn cash, travel free!!
Group Discounts
www.BeachLifeVacations.com
174 Spacious Suites (with full kitchens) 
Three Meeting Rooms (over 2,000 sq. ft.)
24-Hour Message Center/Voice Mai! 
Indoor Pool and Whirlpool
Hot Breakfast Daiiy (including scrambled eggs and Belgian waffles) Fitness Center
Evening Social Hour (Mon.-Thurs.)
Daily Newspaper
Shuttle Van Service (within 3-mile radius) 
Secure Indoor Garage
Cable TV with Premium Channels 
Pets Accepted
Laundry Facilities on Each Floor 
High Speed Internet
ASK ABOUT OUR CMU RATES!
3896 Bigelow Boulevard  Oakland  Pittsburgh, PA 15213 * (412) 621 -2200  wwav.residenceinn.com/pitro
9-Unit Internship 
Opportunity
The Tartan will offer an internship opportunity in conjunction with the 
English Department in the College of Humanities & Social Sciences.
The internship is worth 9 units and is open to any student who meets the 
below listed co-requisites or has spent a full semester as a Tartan staffwriter.
Co-requisites: Choose one from list
 76-372 Contemporary Journalism
 76-271 Intro to Prof. & Tech. Writing
 76-270 Writing in the Professions
 76-390 Style
Also eligible, for Pillbox writers only:
 76-260 Survey of Forms
 76-294 Interpretive Practices
For more information, visit http://www.thetartan.org, contact 
managingeditor@thetartan.org, or stop by the newsroom, University Center 314.
Beginning Spring 2004
WE'VE BEEN THERE.
 ROOM TO RELAX, ROOM TO WORK, ROOM TO BREATHE.
RESIDENCE INN BY MARRIOTTPITTSBURGH/OAKLAND
All of our suites provide the comforts of home with Marriotts passion for making every guest feel welcome.
November 19,2003
ARE YOU A 
GOOD EGG?
(Wonderful Egg Donor Needed)
$ 15,000 Compensation
Loving, worm, Ivy-league educated 
couple searching for terrific egg 
donor. Jewish would be great, but 
not essential (if you meet the 
other criteria, well settle for you 
having seen Fiddler on the Roof), 
attractive, excellent 
academics/SATs, brown hair, light 
complexion, slender, 53 and 
above, creative (except with your 
resume), outgoing, healthy, happy.
Send bio/photos/inquiries to: 
torespond@earthlink.net
Residence
Inn 
Harriott
Whos Invited: Students and Alumni from Western
Pennsylvania Colleges and Universities
Date: Wednesday - November 19, 2003
Time: 10:00am - 3:00pm
Location: Carnegie Mellon University
University Center - Rangos Hall Rooms 1,2, 3 
Campus of Carnegie Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
Description: 2nd annual Federal Career Job Fair, with over
40 federal agencies represented, for students 
interested in federal careers, will feature a keynote 
speaker and information sessions with select agencies.
Contact Info: H. John Heinz III School of Public Policy and Management
and Office of Career Services
Registration Email: fed-careerday@andrew.cmu.edu
Web: www.heinz.cmu.edu/fedcareerday
Office: 412-268-2166
Fax: 412-268-6718
Employers will be invited to a Deans Breakfast.
Sponsored by:
The Heinz School & Carnegie Mellon University Career Center, The Graduate School of Public and International Affairs (GSPIA) & University of Pittsburgh 
Office of Career Services, Duquesne University Career Services Center and Carloxv College Career Services. With the Pittsburgh Federal Executive Board and the Partnership for Public Service.
HowtoDouble Your Employment Opportunities info kit
Study Abroad to Double YourEmployment Opportunities
Togeta FREE info kit 
e-mail us: Free/n/o@Abroad//?Russia.com
or call us Toll Free: 1-866-889-9880
vmm
Spring Break 2004
The Ultimate Experience
well get you there.
j $25.00 OFF "j
I THE PURCHASE OF $100.00 I 
I VON DUTCH JEANS
Carnegie Mellon U.... Live Life the Beach Life Way!
London.................$349
Paris.....................$405
Rio de Janeiro...$643
New York..............$209
Chicago................$218
Fare is round trip from Pittsburgh. Subject to 
change and availability. Tax not included. 
Restrictions and blackouts apply.

---------------------------------------------------

Forum
THE TARTANIO November 2003
Bum Lee/Art Editor
takes students nowhere
of documentation to change even the sim
plest feature to be different from the 
default.
As of today, the portal provides a quick 
glance at your e-mail inbox, a similarly 
quick glance at your Andrew Calendar, an 
Event Calendar that provides little to no 
value, and a whole slew of largely useless 
links.
Several different portlets throughout 
the different tabs on the site allow you to 
check your e-mail or view several different 
bboards. Some additional portlets are noth
ing but bboard listings, all of which dump 
straight to the slightly sketchy webmail sys
tem. Users who already use webmail will 
find no advantage to this setup, as they are 
already seeing the same messages through 
their subscriptions.
Student organizations were heavily 
solicited earlier in the year to use this Event 
Calendar to provide their events. A glance at 
whats available suggests that quite a few 
groups followed the link in the e-mail, 
signed up for a group calendar, and pro
ceeded to do nothing other than input a 
repeating event for their regular meeting
time.
At the very least, Scotch n Soda does 
appear to have some event listings up, but .1 
definitely couldnt find any others, except 
for the Eclectic Studies Group. Several 
academic and administrative departments 
and others that pay people to do this type of 
thing have events, but these same people 
that get paid also do very well informing 
people by using other means.
As such, e-mail and bboards have been an 
important part of the campus community 
since long before the words world wide 
web were ever used together. Were this 
portal part of the advent of electronic com
munication on campus, it would be wonder
ful, but its not: it comes knocking when 
anybody that needs to communicate already 
has their means set up.
Certainly, the idea of a large-scale groupby-group event calendar for the entire cam
pus is an entirely good one, and the one on 
the student portal is rather well-implement
ed, in this CS majors professional opinion. 
Student organizations, though, have wellYouve probably been hit by the deluge of 
publicity by this point. You can hardly visit a 
Computing Services web page without see
ing a blurb telling you about the new stu
dent portal, designed to make everybodys 
life easier. Designed, of course, so that 
everybody will see the bait and find a new 
way of coordinating information. Problem 
is, nobodys biting.
On the opening page of the student portal 
(http://my.cmu.edu), the user is greeted by 
a static welcome message and reminder that 
the portal doesnt claim to be anything spec
tacular at this point.
A quick poll of people at hand in various 
environments around campus suggests that 
while most have gotten wind of the portals 
existence, a few havent and those who have 
never use it. Some have tried to use it and 
failed, unable to figure out its interface or 
unwilling to wade through its copious pages
Campus Police should follow up on 
hazy and frightening crime notices
See PORTAL, page AIO
It was good enough for the Beatles
Legend has it that when the Beatles made 
their American television debut, on a 1964 
episode of The Ed Sullivav Show, all crime, 
nationwide, stood still for a few minutes. 
This is the work of a modern miracle  tele
vision.
Pollsters from the Kaiser Family 
Foundation recently reported that a third of 
all three-year-olds have a TV in their bed
rooms, and last week, the Pittsburgh PostGazette issued an editorial lambasting TV 
for its omnipresence in the typical family, its 
role as pseudo-guardian and demagogue. 
Certainly, it isnt healthy when a toddler 
soaks up more cathode rays than real sun
shine and sees more of Mr. Rogers than 
Mom and Dad, but so many anti-TV argu
ments are rife with condescension, fed from 
a silver spoon and dripping with cultural 
and moral elitism.
To suggest that TV-viewing is a less intel
ligent or simply lesser activity than older 
pastimes like reading or writing is to deny 
the importance of a decades-old invention 
thats captured public interest. Its impossi
ble to objectively define taste as good or 
bad, right or wrong, and when gritics chal
lenge television based on its cultural perva
sion or its quality, they are assigning greater 
value to themselves  sometimes explicitly 
 than TV-watchers. Even the controversial 
reality show beast offers us insight into what 
makes humans really tick. Our curiosities 
are not prurient, but natural, and to conTHE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon s Student Newspaper Since 1906
EDITORIAL BOARD 
ANDREW JOHNSON 
Editor-in-Chief
DANIEL GOLDMAN, Managing Editor 
ALEX MESEGUER, News Editor 
JEFF CULLERS, Photo Editor
L. QUINN ARROYO, Personnel Co-Manager 
JASON SUROVY, Personnel Co-Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
CELANIE POLANICK, Pillbox Editor 
KAREN HOFFMANN, Sei. & Tech. Editor 
BARY DUNN, Sports Editor 
NEAL SHYAM, Comics Editor 
BUM LEE, Art Editor 
CHRISTOPHER CHAN, Online Editor 
NICK ENNIS, Business Manager 
REKHA NAIR, Advertising Manager 
JIM PULS, Production Manager 
JAMES AUWAERTER, Copy Manager 
RYA BARAZ, Darkroom Manager
J.T. TROLLMAN, Asst. Photo Editor 
MARINA KLIGER, Asst. Art Editor 
MEG RICHARDS, Asst. Production Manager
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
John Davin, Cheryl Tomblin, 
Julie Watt

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  NOVEMBER 10, 2003
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906
SENIOR STAFF 
Albert Cohen, Michael Croland
STAFFWRITERS 
Adam Atkinson, Tim Bowen, Dan 
Ceppos, Kevin Chang, Jeannie Choi, Joe 
Elliott, Adam Greenberg, Ben Hackett, 
Colin Holloway, Teh Seng Keat, Molly 
McAshan, Laura Palotie, Rachel 
Papernick, Matt Rado, Brenda Reyes, 
Lauren Sauer, Caleb Stright, Evan 
Sundwick, James Tetlow, Katherine 
Thompson, Preston Treichel, Cecilia 
Westbrook, Dinah Winnick, Hannah Yi
ART
Kohta Asakura, Jeremy Canceko, 
Jennifer Keinard, John Kim, Bridget 
Lewis, Grace Li, Elizabeth Levin, Julie 
Qiu, Vanessa Shyu
COMICS
Amy Bickerton, Franz Harter, Nick 
Marino, Scott Niekum, Eli Pousson, 
Gregory Prichard, Bob Rost, Ed Ryan, 
Geoffrey Washburn, Daniel Vogel
PHOTO
Jennifer Anttonen, Namtarn Chaipan, 
Anthony DAuria, Wenyao Ho, Eugene, 
Hsia, Veronique Lee, Michael Preysman, 
Orathai Sukwong, David Rush, Mark s. 
Rau, Kathy Saye, Shafeeq 
Sinnamohideen
COPY
Michelle Bova, Catherine Fan, Helen 
Gruner, Adina Klein, Arthur ODwyer, 
Annalisa Schaefer
AD STAFF 
Sureena Bhansali, Patricia Chon, 
Julian Chun, Prantik Kundu, Jennifer 
Lin, Aditi Raturi, Heidi Woo, Mike 
Yang, Ranie You
JUNIOR STAFF 
Sid Butalia, Chris Casinghino, Erin 
Danehy, Steven Goldberg, James Hart, 
Kirk Higgins, Matthew Hornyak, 
Ponnurangam Kumaraguru, Nayema 
Kuddus, Christina Kung, Rebecca Lee, 
Jonathan Mendelson, Matt Meurer, Will 
Minton, Stephanie Natale, Janet Park, 
Saagar Patel, Susan Peich, Jairan 
Sadeghi, Christina Shin, Lucas Yiannatji
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie 
Mellon University. The first issuq is free. 
Additional copies can be purchased for $0.25 
each. It is a weekly newspaper published by stu
dents during the fall and spring semesters. It is 
printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. 
Subscriptions are available for the semester or 
academic year. The editorials appearing at the 
beginning of the opinion section are the official 
opinion of The Tartan editorial board. Columns 
and political cartoons are the opinions of indi
vidual creators. The Tartan reserves the right to 
reject or condense any column or political car- 1 
toon. Letters to the Editor are opinions of 
authors who are usually, but not necessarily, 
members of the University community. A letter 
intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writers address and phone number 
for verification. Names may be withheld upon 
request. The Tartan requests that letters be no 
longer than 350 words. The Tartan reserves the 
right to condense or reject any letter. Letters to 
the Editor must be submitted by 5 pm the 
Thursday before publication. Copyright  2002 
by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit for publication. Office: 
University Center Room 314. Phone: (412) 268- 
2111. Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 1017/ 
Carnegie Mellon University/
Pittsburgh, PA 15289-1017.
E-mail:
tartan@andrew.cmu.edu 
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress 
ISSN#:0890-3107.
The Tartan is a member of the Associated 
Collegiate Press.
CMU loves to 
hate Greeks
Ben Hackett
Carnegie Mellon, in another pearl of its infinite 
wisdom, has now determined that fraternities can 
no longer get housing cancellations for incoming 
freshmen who wish to move into their respective 
houses. CMU no longer thinks it necessary to grant 
J:hat exception for the Greek system, citing the estab- lishment of New House and, therefore, the end of 
temporary housing (for now). As stated in Housing 
for first-years less flexible on the front page of this 
issue, the claim made is that it is just a coincidence 
that refunds are not necessary this year as part of 
the budgets.
Let me get this out of the way now: I am an active 
member of the Greek community. I am a DU. The 
following are my personal beliefs and not expres
sions of those of my house. The case I will lay out for 
you will attempt to expose the anti-Greek sentiment 
expressed throughout the campus. After that, we 
will examine why it is undeserved and unwarranted.
For those who are unfamiliar with the internals of 
running a fraternity, realize that many fraternities 
rely on the revenue generated from filling their 
houses for everything from parties to booth to 
meals. Thus, the campus administration has now 
determined that it is important to make it harder for 
fraternities to fund their houses and the social 
events that Carnegie Mellon so desperately lacks as 
it is.
Fraternity houses, especially the smaller ones currendy experiencing trouble filling their houses, may 
experience extreme difficulties in filling their hous
es, and, in the most extreme cases, in continuing as 
a fraternity.
Many out there see no problem with the destruc
tion of Carnegie Mellons Greek community. Even as 
the administration pretends to befriend the fraterni
ties, spouting the company line We appreciate the 
Greek community and treat them fairly, one must 
wonder if they would be upset if the Greek commu
nity collapsed on campus.
Uneven punishments and unfair treatments 
abound in the relationship between the campus 
administration and the Greek community.
Take the example of John Doe, called such 
because he wished to remain anonymous while his 
case is pending. John is a respectable student who 
maintains a 4.0 grade-point average, does commu
nity service, and happens to be Greek; he will poten
tially be kicked out of school for throwing some
thing into an empty parking lot. Meanwhile, when a 
shady party decides to throw a Molotov cocktail 
onto the couch of a fraternity, potentially burning 
down the house and injuring members, the adminis
tration and student life simply dismiss the com
plaint, ignoring it and sweeping it under the plaid 
rug. That plaid rug, by the way, has an increasing 
mound growing under it, consisting of unfair treat
ments and administrative gaffes.
The freedoms of speech granted to many of the 
activists on campus are simply not granted at the 
same level to the Greek community. The peaceniks 
are encouraged to run around campus with 
American flags with swastikas instead of stars. 
However, when signs pop up satirizing the ridicu
lousness of the peace movement at large, the cam
pus condemns them, again ignoring the greater 
absurdities of the others projecting hate along with 
their messages. Having to constantly explain one
self, or attend meetings, to deal with the expression 
of ones First Amendment rights is too incredibly 
ludicrous to believe it really happens. Then, the 
cases of condemnations of some peoples freedom of 
speech stand in stark contrast with the schools 
defenses of students who paint more hateful slogans 
such as United we stand  against Bush on the 
fence on the Cut.
All of these events actually occur. As the school 
attempts to squash the Greek community in any and 
fevery way possible, the failure of the school to rec
ognize the contributions of the Greek community 
^ecomes more evident. The Greek community pro
vides the basic social life that this campus desper
ately needs. Without the Greek community, booth, 
buggy, Greek Sing, and Carnival simply would not 
run. Greek alumni regularly endow more money to 
the University than other alumni.
Think of your stereotypical Friday night on this 
campus. Without the Greek parties and activities, 
and the occasional Beeler Street or pantry shindig, 
where would the social scene come from here? 
Where would a young lad or dame blow off some 
steam after a long week of coding and clustering?
See GREEKS, page A10
Dining now delicious, says no one
A PERSONS OPINION
Compiled and photos by Kathy Saye
Sean Baker
Sophomore
Electrical and Computer Engineering
I dont really like Klondike bars ... Im not a funny person.
Jessica HosoiSeniorInformation Systems 
Id make out with Sameer.
Sameer RathodSeniorComputational Finance 
Id let Jessica make out with me.
David Rice
Sophomore
Mechanical Engineering 
Id hop on one foot... naked.
Taka Agawa
Sophomore
Economics
Id have sex with the Klondike bear.
Since the sun decided to leave the golden state for a week and make a quick 
appearance in the Burgh, it was inevitable that cold desserts would be brought 
out once again, so we asked readers:
What would you do for a Klondike bar?
Andrew Johnson
Many of you might have noticed an aber
ration in the true section of readme this 
week. Student Body President Daniel Gilman 
avowed that dining is showing improve
ment this year. I can only assume, based on 
readmes audience, that this rhetoric is 
directed towards students. Gilmans only 
concrete example of improvement is an 
increase in upperclassmen on the meal plan 
due to new options introduced this semester. 
While perhaps a financial gain for Parkhurst 
and the University, this hardly constitutes a 
victory for students.
Complaints about dining from students 
have always centered on the quality and 
price of food, as well as the clumsy setup of 
dining throughout campus. Dining, on the 
other hand, has always said that to provide
better service, they need more people on the 
meal plan. Making that leap from more peo
ple on the meal plan to better food is some
thing that we just have not yet seen.
This is no attack on our president. Only a 
fool would believe that student government 
could be the main force behind mass 
improvement in dining. But as a, maybe the, 
student representative to the administration, 
there is no need for back-patting.
We are immersed in a fight for quality food 
on campus, and constant pressure from the 
student body is necessary to preclude com
placency on the part of the Parkhurst 
Corporation and Carnegie Mellon. Gilman 
tells us, We are dedicated to making the 
upgrades to dining that are necessary, and I 
am confident that we are at least headed in 
the right direction.
Unfortunately, the rest of us are not so 
confident. The lack of specifics in the column 
makes me wonder if Gilman isnt either.
Dont be fooled into thinking that we have 
been empowered by our student body presi
dent. He tells us that, as he promised, new 
security blue lights have been installed on 
campus. Yet these lights were scheduled and 
budgeted for last winter. I personally asked 
Campus Police Chief Creig Doyle when and 
where each light would go, and published a 
map detailing these locations in November. If 
action and the fulfillment of promises is 
watching other peoples work go through, 
then the position of president is better 
labeled passive observer. It is hard trying to 
come up with a new diatribe about dining 
each time I sit down to write; after all, it is 
the same old complaints: poor food quality, 
too expensive, poor cooking.
This seems to be the one area where the 
University cannot make any steps forward, 
despite the words of our president. In securi
ty, we can see blue lights, and on an earlier 
security front, Campus Police started notify
ing the campus more publicly of violent 
crime and robberies on and around campus.
See DINING, page A10
An illustrated opinion by Joe Sellers
Sc, ojhak Loutre Afe. iciest;
\s=, -fcka-t Is oioo^ W- I2,J
\) 9 
I ^ tt P&-0 C~ .D5

---------------------------------------------------

Community Standards in Action
Residence
Harriott
3896 Bigelow Boulevard  Oakland  Pittsburgh, PA 15213  (412) 621-2200  www.residenceinn.com/pitro
CHARGES:
Assault (5)
Controlled Substance (2)
Disorderly Conduct (9)
Failure to Comply (1)
Fraud (3)
Furnishing Alcohol to Minors (5) 
Harassment (4)
Trespass(3)
Sexual Assault (3)
Underage Consumption (2) 
Vandalism/Destruction of Property (4)
RESULTING ACTIONS:
Community Service (14)
Counseling or assessment (6)
Degree withheld pending completion of service (2) 
Disciplinary probation & community service (1) 
Expulsion held in abeyance (1)
Program creation or completion (4)
Removal from housing with additional 
requirements (1)
Suspension (2)
Suspension held in abeyance (8)
Other(3)
Decisions resulting in the student(s) being found not responsible
Tartan Elections are coming.
The following positions will be elected:
 Editor-in-Chief
 Managing Editor
 News Editor
 Forum Editor
 Sports Editor
 Pillbox Editor
 Science & Technology Editor
 Online Editor
 Online Design Editor
 Dossier Literary Editor
 Dossier Design Editor
 Art Editor
 Photo Editor
 Comics Editor
Your chance to change the world. 
Fall 2003 finals week.
RESIDENCE INN BY MARRIOTT
PITTSBURGH / OAKLAND
Carnegie Mellon UDC Cases August 2001 -December 2002
Join us for a taste of home at Residence inn* Gatehouse, where you Gan start your day right 
with a tall glass of OJ, steaming hot oatmeal, fresh scrambled eggs, or maybe some tasty waffles.
174 Spacious Suites (with full kitchens) 24-Hour Message Center / Voice Mail
Three Meeting Rooms (over 2,000 sq. ft.) ' Indoor Pool and Whirlpool
Hot Breakfast Daily (including scrambled eggs and Belgian waffles) Fitness Center
Evening Social Hour (Mon. -Thurs.) Cable TV with Premium Channels
Daily Newspaper Pets Accepted
Shuttle Van Service (within 3-mile radius) Laundry Facilities on Each Floor
Secure Indoor Garage .High Speed Internet
ASK ABOUT OUR CMU RATES!
Cases referred to the UDC
Decisions resulting in the student(s) being found responsible
THE TARTAN  NOVEMBER 10, 2003
ttystrcpi*Ifaf'
Portal offers students nothing
PORTAL, from page A8
established means of getting word 
out about their events and would 
only be wasting extra effort by using 
this large-scale event calendar.
It all boils down to one fundamen
tal problem with the student portal: 
theres no compelling reason to use it. 
The e-mail portlets only mean it takes 
one extra click to get to webmail; the 
links are slower to use than Google. 
The calendar is, for all intents and 
purposes, devoid of content.
Fortunately for all of us, the portal 
is at the very least quite solidly imple
mented. It could be much worse: we
could be stuck with yet another horri
ble shrink-wrapped product that 
Computing Services intrepidly tried 
to shoehorn onto the campus com
puting infrastructure. At some point 
in the future, this portal could indeed 
be a very important web starting 
point that makes every students life 
easier.
Before that can happen, though, 
people need a reason to use it.
In my mind, the answer is integra
tion. Instead of linking to a myriad of 
webpages and listing the first ten 
messages off a dozen bboards, the 
portal needs to act as a sort of glue 
interconnecting the universitys inter
nal web. Instead of providing links to 
Tartan Scheduler and On-Line 
Registration, make them work 
together.
With the kind of talent at this 
University, all of these things are pos
sible. Computing Services just needs 
to make them happen. Until then, the 
student portal will be just another set 
of pages taking up space on the uni
versitys servers.
Jim Puls (jpuls@J is still The 
Tartans Production and Systems 
Manager. Hes really not as nerdy in 
real-life as his articles make him seem.
Greek contributions neglected
GREEKS, from page A9
Whose booth would the families of 
the Pittsburgh community walk 
through and enjoy? Where would 
one go to watch a Buggy race? Would 
the traditions of this campus occur if 
the movement against the Greek sys
tem were successful?
All these factors contribute to a 
sucessful campus life, yet the campus
fails to acknowledge the right, and 
necessity, of the Greek community to 
exist. Ever wonder why a university 
with nearly every program in the top 
10 cannot break the top 20 in rank
ings? The answers are simple. 
Carnegie Mellon is brought down by 
student life, alumni endowment, and 
its retention rate. These factors all 
arise from a general discontent 
among the campus community. So
what are the solutions to these prob
lems? Well, if you ask the administra
tion, the answer would be to attack 
one of the few groups that tried to 
provide some fun and a boost to cam
pus life.
Ben Hackett (T)hackett@J is a 
sophomore social and decision sciences 
major.
Dining improvements where?
DINING, from page A9
MU ~
The University was even able to 
transform itself over the last two 
decades from a hellish tech school to 
a school that concentrates heavily on 
the undergraduate experience. I, for 
one, am glad that Gilman says he is 
working on getting more vegetarian 
and vegan options on campus. As a 
vegetarian, my options on campus 
often lead me to the trucks, where I 
can get a variety of vegetables from 
Srees or Moonlite. But campus food 
concerns have always centered 
around low food quality and relative
ly high prices, and Parkhurst is conMultimedia / graphic artist is needed immediately to create a short 
presentation.
This is a temporary position:
 Excellent power point skills are necessary.
 Experience in making movies from computer screen capture is 
necessary.
 Experience with SGI capture / mediarecorder is preferred. 
Contact Dan Cunningham at cunninghamd@upmc.edu
The charges and resulting actions below represent all of the cases heard during this time 
period. Each case may have had multiple charges and/or respondents and several cases 
resulted in multiple actions. The numbers in parenthesis represent the number of cases 
associated with a particular charge or outcome. Both lists are alphabetical and do not 
correspond by row.
tinuing to fail to address these con
cerns.
The company has implemented 
measures to serve fresher food by not 
leaving the fare under warmers for a 
long time. Food is made to order, and 
only about 15 portions of a dish at 
Pennes International Marketplace 
are prepared at a time. Parkhurst also 
has chefs who create much of the 
food from scratch, from the cutting of 
the meat, to the blend of herbs and 
spices. But the food served will 
remain poor as long as the recipes 
remain inept, and the ingredients 
served are poor. I fear that any com
ing vegetarian options will follow
The Carnegie Mellon Code maintains that violations of community 
standards are taken seriously. The University Committee on 
Discipline (UDC) is a hearing hoard made up of faculty, staff, and 
students that hears cases of serious, alleged violations of community 
standards. The UDC makes recommendations for action if a student 
is found responsible for a charge.
It is important to note that not all disciplinary cases are referred to a 
hearing board. In fact, during the 2001-2002 academic year 
151 cases resulted in a mediated agreement between the parties 
involved (these agreements most often included completion of 
community service hours, planning or participating in educational 
programs, and placement on probation).
The table below highlights UDC cases that occurred during the Fall 
2001, Spring 2002, and Fall 2002 semesters. In accordance with state 
and federal laws protecting the privacy of student records, details of 
cases are excluded in order to prevent the clear identification of the 
student(s) involved.
suit. The most popular establish
ments on campus are independent, 
such as S Seor, CKs Pretzel Shop, 
and The Original Hot Dog Shop. 
These companies are in the business 
of selling food to people. Parkhurst 
concentrates on selling food to stu
dents, to the detriment of students. 
There business is specialized to take 
advantage of the trapped customers, 
and mass produce food on a cost-efficient scale.
Andrew Johnson (johnson3@J is 
the editor-in-chief of The Tartan. He 
welcomes all responsible replies.
ROOM TO RELAX, ROOM TO WORK, ROOM TO BREATHE.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  NOVEMBER 10,2003Ail
Men win fourth-straight UAA title
Men's soccer defeats Emory 1-0, earns automatic NCAA bid; women lose 1-0, hope for invitation to ECACs
by Daniel Ceppos
 Staffwriter
It isnt often that both a mens and a 
womens team have their playoff fates in their 
hands on the same day against the same 
opponent. However, that was the case on 
Saturday for the Carnegie Mellon mens and 
womens soccer teams as they each traveled 
to Atlanta to face the Emory University 
Eagles.
-. The men ensured themselves an automatic 
, spot in the NCAA playoffs, pulling off a dra;;matic upset over the Eagles, who were ranked 
; fourth in the nation, and winning the UAA 
conference championship for the fourth 
straight season. The final score was 1-0.
The first half ended in a stalemate. Though 
both teams had excellent scoring opportuni
ties, neither team could convert. However, 
the yellow card that junior defender Alex 
Beck received in the first half proved pivotal 
in setting the tempo of the second half.
; About halfway into the second half, Beck 
received his second yellow card and was 
ejected. The Tartans thus had to play the rest 
of the match down a man. This did not dis
courage Carnegie Mellon, however, as they 
became more determined to move upfield 
and score the games first goal. The team 
drove into Emorys side of the field only a few 
minutes after Becks ejection and earned a 
free kick from twenty-five yards out. Junior 
forward James Steidel blasted the kick low 
off the left goalpost and into the net in the 
thirteenth minute, which gave the Tartans all 
they would need offensively.
The rest of the game was played on
Carnegie Mellons end of the field. Taking 
advantage of the extra man, Emory threat
ened the Tartan defense for the remainder of 
the game.
After the goal, we immediately switched 
to a defensive approach to secure our 1-0 
lead, said Steidel. Our defense stepped up 
to the overwhelming challenge and displayed 
amazing heart. Every player on the field 
played exceptional ball, and even with a man 
down, shut down Emory.
An outstanding effort was given by defend
ers Joseph Artuso, Steve Berci, and Eric 
Buhman. Junior goalkeeper Dave Thomas 
exceptional play was vital once again as he 
registered 14 saves.
The entire team played amazing, junior 
Joseph Artuso said. Everyone played their 
hearts out. It was a total team effort.
Though Carnegie Mellon won the confer
ence, this may not be the last they see of the 
Emory Eagles, head coach Nick Gaudioso 
speculated.
Theyre a very good team, he said. I 
imagine they will get an at-large bid [to the 
NCAA tournament]. Only four teams that 
dont win their conference receive them, and 
that says something about the strength of 
Emory, as well as the UAA.
Carnegie Mellon ended the regular season 
with a 15-1-0 record, while Emory finished 
16-2-1. The team will play their next game 
on either Wednesday or Friday. The location 
and opponent are to be determined, but the 
Tartans are already looking forward to the 
playoffs, especially Steidel.
Im looking forward to our next hurdle ... 
the NCAA championship, he said.
The womens team, conversely, played in a
heartbreaking loss on Saturday. Despite con
trolling play and out-shooting Emory 15-8, 
the Tartans fell 1-0.
As was the case in the mens game, the first 
half ended tied at zero. The Tartans came out 
in the second half playing hard,, desperately 
trying to finish on their scoring opportunities 
and outplay Emory. Yet it would be Emory 
who scored first.
In the eighteenth minute of the half, Emory 
midfielder Nancy Wilson barely escaped 
Tartan defenders and put the ball past sopho
more goalkeeper Betsy Ricker, who played an 
excellent game, to score the games first and 
only goal.
We fought really hard, Ricker said. 
Sometimes things go your way and some
times they dont.
Solid play came from the Tartan midfield, 
which continued to fight throughout the 
remainder of the match and managed to con
trol the ball in Emorys end of the field.
According to head coach Heather Kendra, 
senior midfielder Merry McConnochie played 
very well and with a lot of heart against 
Emory.
It was definitely a really tough loss. We 
played extremely well as a team. We just had 
trouble scoring, even though we out-shot and 
out-played them, McConnochie said.
Saturdays defeat did not dishearten the 
womens team, however. Carnegie Mellon 
provided a record-breaking season and, 
according to Kendra, was the best Tartan 
team she has ever coached.
Its hard to end the regular season with a 
loss, but it was a really tremendous year. We 
broke records and played in a difficult confer
ence, said Kendra.
File Photo
The team will not qualify for the NCAA 
playoffs, but still looks forward to an ECAC 
tournament bid.
We should find out about any tournament 
invitations today. We wont get a bid to the
NCAA, but we are hopeful to get into the 
ECAC tournament, Kendra said.
The Tartans ended their record-breaking 
season 10-2-4, with a 3-2-2 performance in 
the UAA.
Volleyball team swept in final three matches at UAAs
by Bary Dunn
Sports Editor
The womens volleyball team head
ed to UAA championships in New 
York on Thursday ranked fourth in 
the league and, perhaps appropriate
ly, returned home to Pittsburgh with 
the same league ranking and a final 
season record of 23-11.
The Tartans easily disposed of 
opening round foes Chicago and 
Rochester, defeating each 3-0. In the 
teams third and final match of the 
day, the Tartans lost to Washington 
University 3-0 in pool play.
' Nonetheless, having defeated 
Chicago and Rochester, the Tartans 
were guaranteed a finish in the top 
four.
This may have set the team at ease, 
however, when the Tartans played 
Saturday against New York
University and Emory University.
In the teams match against NYU, 
the Tartans lost 3-0, and again, vying 
for third place, they lost to Emory 
3-0.
Maybe I got too excited about 
knowing that we would finish in the 
top four, said head coach Julie 
Webb, and I think the girls did, too.
Playing five matches in a weekend 
is difficult, according to Webb, as the 
team has only done that once this 
season in their opening tournament.
We didnt play very well, said 
Webb, who had to make lineup 
changes due to the fractured ankle 
sustained by first-year outside hitter 
Amanda Bradford in the last five min
utes of practice on Wednesday.
I told the girls that they would 
have to play really hard and that I 
was going to have to move people 
around, said Webb.
We needed a more well-balanced
attack, which we didnt have without 
Amanda.
We really wanted to win, but los
ing Amanda was a big disability, said 
first-year libero/setter Megan 
Miyamoto. We had to be flexible 
with coach Webb, but I think that we 
adjusted well.
The adjustments made still would 
not replace the missing contribution 
from Bradford, as the Tartans pro
ceeded to lose three consecutive 
matches 3-0.
On a separate note, sophomore 
middle hitter Chrissy Bartek played 
well, according to Webb, as she 
earned second-team all-conference 
honors following the championship.
First-year outside hitter Catie 
Fisher and senior outside hitter 
Jennifer King earned honorable men
tion awards.
This award was particularly special 
for King, who had never been given
an award in her four-year play for the 
volleyball team.
She deserves it, said Miyamoto. 
She worked really hard in our 
matches and at practice, and inspired 
all of us to play better.
What Webb was perhaps most dis
appointed with this weekend were 
the attitude problems of her players.
This weekend it was just not 
there. We didnt play as a team, and 
there was a lack of leadership. It was 
very disappointing, she said.
The teams final hopes are to be 
one of the six selected teams to par
ticipate in the ECAC tournament. The 
Tartans won this tournament three 
years out of the past fourthe one 
year they did not win was when they 
participated in the higher, more pres
tigious NCAA tournament. However, 
in past years, the teams record has 
been much better than it was this 
year.
Regardless of the teams destiny for 
the 2003 season, Webb is very posi
tive about the future of volleyball at 
Carnegie Mellon.
The next three years are going to
be very exciting for us, said Webb, 
who has coached the Tartans for 
eight years. Improvement comes 
during the off-season though, and we 
still have a long way to go.
Carnegie Mellon
November 10 November 11 November 12 November 13 November 14 November 15 November 16 November 17
MENSSOCCER
MEN'SSWIMMING
MEN AND WOMENS 
CROSS COUNTRY
 Unwrsty o*  \ Rochstef  \ 
1 .12.0&PM ; j
f NCAATcwnarrart i t^.lcurnarrer.* 
\ CwftfWjtfiw 1 Carol WrtnW
Naaps
GcwftCfr . "VV' CqS$q* - ! I 
7:00PM if }
nzr~
f *CAA$ewwts f T \
Bum Lee/Art Editor
Basketball teams plan to run
BASKETBALL, from page A12
Painter, Carrisa Sain, and Danyelle 
Sinclair lead the way as team cap
tains for the 2003-2004 season.
Steady play in all aspects of the 
game will be necessary for the 
Tartans, who will be facing tough 
competition yet again in the UAA. 
Considered one of the leading con
ferences in Division III basketball, 
the UAA consistently produces excel
lent teams, with the University of 
Rochesters Final Four appearance 
last year as an example of recent suc
cess. The UAA already has two topten teams  Washington University 
(St. Louis) and the University of 
Rochester  in the national rankings 
for Division III womens basketball 
entering this season.
The Tartans will have to be a good 
road team this year to enjoy success.
In fact, the team has only one home 
game before January 9  the home 
season opener against Grove City 
College on December 2. 
Furthermore, the three-game homestand to end the season in late 
February is the only homestand that 
is longer than two games. The 
womens team also faces a tough 
stretch in early February, as they will 
play four consecutive road games, all 
against UAA teams. Nevertheless, the 
team feels it is well-prepared and is 
looking forward to getting the season 
underway. As a coach, you always 
expect to win, commented Seidl. I 
would like to consistently be in the 
top three in the UAA, every year. 
The mens basketball team played 
well through twenty games last sea
son, and earned a winning record 
against non-conference teams. 
However, the team ended last year
File Photo
Junior point guard Eliot Goren leads the Tartan backcourt this season.
on a sour note, as the Tartans suf
fered five consecutive losses. Head 
coach Tony Wingen believes the dis
appointment may prove to be a bless
ing in disguise. Thats been a real 
motivator for our team to prepare for 
this year, he said. Our off-season 
workouts have been tremendous, 
and the players have really worked 
on weight training and condition
ing.
The team will continue to focus on 
a fast-break, pressing style of play, 
a system that was implemented 
about three years ago. Wingen com
mented that aggressiveness and 
leadership are among the teams 
greatest strengths, while defensive 
rebounding is one of the areas on 
which the team needs to work. He 
said the team has improved in all 
aspects of the game, particularly on 
the offensive side. This years team 
is taller and has a lot of depth, said 
Wingen, who would like to see the 
improvements translate into consis
tent performances on the court. 
Senior forward Matt Kaitz, a team 
captain, agrees: We are going to be 
good if we can do the things we are 
capable of doing.
The Tartans do not have many 
injury issues other than an ankle 
injury to junior forward Michael 
Divens. The team only lost one player 
to graduation, and all returning play
ers are comfortable with the up
tempo style of play. Experience will 
be vital in the UAA, which currently 
has the University of Rochester 
ranked tenth in Division III mens 
national rankings.
The mens team has a similar 
schedule to the womens team, with 
an identical schedule the last eleven 
games of the season, all against UAA 
teams. Apart from the opening round 
robin and the tournament hosted by 
Carnegie Mellon on November 29- 
30, the only non-conference home 
game for the mens team will be 
against Oberlin College on New 
Years Eve.
Wingen commented he would like 
to see a winning record against non
conference and conference teams. 
Kaitz finds the challenging schedule 
as an opportunity to see just how 
good the team can be. Every year, 
our league is very tough.... We also 
get to play Robert Morris, a Division I 
team, so were excited about the 
chance [to play competitive teams].
IM
EWS
Administration
Director: Mike Mastoianni x8-2214 
or mma8@
Asst. Director: Mike Grzywinski x8- 
2214 or immike@
Secretary: Amy Kiryk x8-2053 or 
kiryk@
Womens President: Karoline Evans 
koe@
Vice President: Shawn Quinn
squinn@
Important Dates
Monday, November 10  Water 
Polo playoffs begin.
Monday, November 10  3-Person 
volleyball begins.
Wednesday, November 12  IM 
Board Meeting in Gym Conference 
Room at 11:45 am.
Monday, November 17 
playoffs begin.
Soccer
Sports in Season
Water Polo  The playoffs start 
tonight with the finals being held on 
Wednesday night.
Bowling  The playoffs were held 
Sunday at the PAA. Results will be 
posted here next week.
Chess  The finals are this week. 
Results will be posted here next 
week.
Volleyball  The champions are 
ACF Badang (majors), Bris 
Hungarian Army (minors), and 
Fresh Meat (women).
Racquetball  The regular season 
ends this week. All scores should be 
reported no later than noon Friday. 
Playoff schedule will be posted 
Friday at 5 pm.
Soccer  The season ends this 
week. Games are scheduled Monday 
through Thursday nights and
Sunday afternoons at the Stadium 
and IM Fields. In the event of rain, 
stay off the fields. Also stay off the 
field during varsity practices. The 
playoffs start next Monday. Brackets 
will be posted today.
Darts, Team Call Pool, Doubles Table 
Tennis, Foosball  The schedules 
are available at the IM Office. Please 
play all matches as scheduled and 
report scores to the IM Office.
3-Person Volleyball  The season 
starts tonight. Brackets are available 
in the IM Office. It is a double elimi
nation tournament format.
All Sports Update through Volleyball
Mens:
1. Beta 1458
2. KDR 892
3. ACF 850
4. SPIRIT 583
Womens:
1. Fresh Meat 1233
2. Hoopers 1116
3. ACF 350
Steelers upside down season okay
COLIN, from page A12
4) Something is worse than the 
weather. It is nice that whenever 
someone utters, Its DAMN cold, 
five people near them can promptly 
declare, My good sir/madam, have 
you forgotten that the Steelers 
suck? Thus, they forget about the 
blistering cold, focusing instead on 
the gridiron ineptitude that has 
spread amongst our beloved 
Steelers.
5) The funny-not-funny jokes in 
my friends profile like: The FBI 
was called to a Steelers practice 
when a mysterious white powdery 
substance was discovered. After a 
complete analysis, it was determined 
that the substance was the goal line. 
Practice was resumed after special 
agents decided the team was unlike
ly to encounter the substance 
again.
6) We all realize that Tommy 
Maddox is like tequila; the first cou
ple shots: great. After that it sickens 
you forever. After last season, we all 
thought he was a godsend, but God 
has a funny way of making these 
gifts conditional. Pittsburgh in the
70s: God, please let us win champi
onships. God: Ok, but you will be 
cursed with a blistering cold FOR
EVER, or for the four years an 
immensely talented and good-look
ing NFL columnist will go to CMU. 
Pittsburgh last season: God, get us 
a real QB. God: Ok, but he will be 
old. Anyway, now the management 
realizes that drafting a strong safety 
in the first round wont fly; we need 
a QB soon.
7) If we suck long enough, some 
orphan somewhere will rely on the 
Steelers winning the Super Bowl to 
get a family, causing Christopher 
Lloyd and his holy-host to come 
make them a good team. Not only 
will Pittsburgh see another champi
onship, but a little orphan will get a 
family, Disney will have another 
touching family film (Ill get money 
for thinking of it), and the resulting 
wacky plays and hilarity will be sim
ply fantastic.
8) Watching the Steelers replaces 
prom night as the worst time Ive 
had sitting at home alone in front of 
the TV (thanks folks, Im here all 
week).
9) The rest of the season is to be 
played primarily against teams as
inept as the Steelers, thus ensuring a 
better second half record than 2-6.
If not, well... consume.
10) Three words: High Draft Pick. 
A last ditch effort to make ourselves 
feel good about a losing season. The 
Steelers need to draft some stud on 
the D-Line, or a damn good RB or 
QB. If they are in the lower half of 
the top 10 (which I bet they will be, 
if they crack the top 10), they should 
go for the D, mostly because there 
arent a lot of offensive players who 
have proven themselves worthy of 
top 10 considerations yet. Too bad 
the Steelers didnt suck last year; 
there were some good players to 
come out of that draft.
So there you have it, Pittsburgh,
10 things to look forward to. I could 
add beer as number 11, but Ill 
spare me the writing and you the 
reading cause we both take that as a 
given. Until brighter days, in cities 
where there is sun, stay true to your 
Steelers, good can come from all bad 
experiences. Except those wretched 
Matrix movies, and that one time 
with whats-her-name.
Colin Holloway (colinh@J wel
comes all responsible replies.

---------------------------------------------------

Sports
IO November 2003 THE TARTAN Page Al2
safety, they gathered themselves at the end of 
the third quarter to get a 34-yard field goal 
from first-year Nathaniel Greenstein.
Greenstein would add another 23-yarder 
to put CMU up 29-24 before Washington 
struck.
This time, Mike Decker crossed the goal 
line from one yard out. The two-point con
version attempt failed and the score was now 
30-29.
Washington added an insurance touch
down with 5:54 remaining on another short 
Decker run. With the successful extra point, it 
guaranteed that CMU would need a touch
down and a two-point conversion to tie the 
game.
On the final drive of the game, the Tartans 
ended up finding the end zone. They ate up 
the remaining time and with one second left, 
Stanley got the touchdown from inches out.
That touchdown gave Stanley the CMU 
record for touchdowns in a season with 20. In 
addition to setting the record, Stanley ended 
the game with 118 yards rushing.
Down 37-35, with the conference title on 
the line, it all came down to the two-point 
conversion for CMU. On a rollout pass, 
Washington read the play well and batted 
down the ball.
The Tartans thus fell to conference champi
ons Washington University.
Despite not throwing for a touchdown, 
Highberger continued to show poise and con
fidence on the field. He finished the game 13 
for 24 with 173 passing yards. The CMU 
offense has not seen such a passing threat in 
a long time.
When you play a team like Washington, 
you have to balance your attack, said head 
coach Rich Lackner. We have confidence in 
our passing game.
Senior receiver Chris Kay added to that 
attack by snagging 8 receptions for 111 yards, 
leading all Tartan receivers.
The Tartans will try to end the season on a 
positive note next Saturday when they travel 
to Rochester University.
Why well always be loyal
ter2. 0erre,Mu
Holy surreal NFL season, Batman! 
Here we sit coming up on week 10, 
and I feel like it is the morning after 
a long night of debauchery. I dont 
know where I am, I dont know how 
I got here, and my head hurts as the 
vague memories of what happened 
drift through in a blur.
Unfortunately, bedrest and water 
wont fix what has transpired thus 
far. The Chiefs are cruising at 8-0, 
the Bucs and Fins cant consistentiy 
win, Cleveland sports the worst 
football team in Ohio, the Raiders 
just lose, baby, my Niners can only 
win against good teams, Spurrier 
cant win against anyone, and the 
Tuna has returned and brought the 
Cowboy glory back with him. At 
least Kordell still sucks enough to 
get benched.
But perhaps the most shocking 
development of all, particularly to 
us here in the Yinzer City, is that 
cheering for our beloved Steelers 
has replaced drinking Iron City Beer 
as the event most likely to leave a 
bad aftertaste. At 2-6 and riding a 
simply remarkable five-game losing
streak, our boys in black and gold 
are causing more heart attacks than 
the 'O' and Primanti Brothers com
bined. It is a tragic tale to be sure. 
Maddox cant find the time to throw, 
Plaxico cant find the end-zone, the 
defense has become the silk-curtain, 
and the Bus is running on fumes. 
While the rest of Pittsburgh may be 
ready to throw away the season as a 
loss (focusing their desperate gaze 
on potential Big East champ, Pitt), I, 
being the eternal optimist, have 
decided to provide 10 reasons why 
this campaign was not a total loss:
1) Kordell is not in Pittsburgh 
anymore. No matter how bad things 
are, remember they can always 
become worse. The Steelers could 
be great for 17 games before losing 
the crucial 18th one at home against 
the Patriots in a year we should have 
seen a Super Bowl title. At least 
these Steelers have consistently 
blown games that didnt matter, 
instead of saving it up for the big 
one at the end.
2) Bill Cowher finally has 
Pittsburghs support to get rid of the 
Bus. After some great seasons here 
in the Burgh, Bettis has become one
of our favorite sons, but now, to be 
blunt, he is old and derelict and 
should (a) retire, (b) sit the bench, 
or (c) leave. Dont get me wrong, I 
think he is still the best back the 
Steelers have, but this season was a 
slap in the face to all those who 
think Pittsburgh has a decent run
ning game. We dont, and it is time 
to start over. Whether we draft or 
trade, new stuff needs to come to 
light. '
3) ESPN will continue to show 
things like Greatest Moments in 
Steelers History to make us all feel 
better. It is the well-received prac
tice of feeling sorry enough for a 
group of people that you do things 
for them. Notice how ESPN doesnt 
show Great Moments in 
Lions/Cardinals/Bengals History: 
none of these teams are used to win
ning, yet we in the Steel City have 
grown accustomed to it. Therefore, 
we are catered to when things go 
bad. Sometimes it is nice to be 
catered to, right? Maybe theyll start 
bringing us things. Like beer. Or 
sandwiches. Mmm, sandwiches.
See COLIN, page All
Third-place deceiving of performance
by Colin Holloway
Staffwriter
In a two-day, four-team event, the 
CMU varsity swimmers once again 
competed against some of the top 
teams in the country this weekend. 
Visited by national powerhouse 
schools such as Emory and Johns 
Hopkins, CMU hosted one of the 
most competitive meets of the sea
son.
Competition is what makes sports 
such a wonderful situation: you do 
better when you have competition; 
you find out what you are made of, 
said head coach David Belowich.
The meet, which was his brain
child six years ago, featured one of 
the top womens teams in the coun
try, Emory, and the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th 
place mens teams in Hopkins, 
Emory, and CMU. Although the final 
line showed both CMU teams at third 
place, the ranking is not indicative of 
the success of the meet. The men 
came very close to second-place 
Emory, and 130 of the times regis
tered for both teams were top times 
this season. In addition, senior diver 
Sean Battis continued to represent as 
the lone male diver by breaking a 
CMU record in the one-meter diving 
competition.
Were not even quite halfway, 
said Belowich, so it is really exciting 
to see the progress of the team. 
Seeing a great performance like this 
against this kind of competition is a
great step.
The mens team came within 12 
points of Emory, whom they look for
ward to meeting again at the UAA 
tournament.
The meet really sets a good tone 
for UAAs, said senior co-captain 
Brian Belowich. We all swam off 
events in this meet and still came 
within a few points of Emory.
In addition to displaying their abil
ity to set pool records and nationally 
qualifying times, this meet was 
another display of the depth of the 
team.
It is kind of cool to see not only 
the top talent on the team do well, 
said Brian Belowich, but the guys 
throughout the team have been step
ping up all year, and they did so 
again today.
Even the womens team, which 
faced an Emory team that has a 
national title in their sights, didnt 
seem intimidated by the competi
tion.
They are great swimmers, said 
senior Julie Tibor, so we went out 
there, and did our best to step up our 
performance against them.
Swimming against this kind of 
talent helps the girls team, said 
coach Belowich. They learned a lot, 
and really made a good account for 
themselves this weekend.
As was the case in previous meets, 
this meet was a huge step in the 
swimmers season. With over half of 
the season left to play, the team looks 
to use this experience against the 
countrys best to raise their own 
expectations for weeks to come.
MpOS
 I fpr
Michael Preysman/Junior Staff
Senior diver Sean Battis struts his stuff this weekend at the CMU Invitational.
Hoopers prepare for opener
University hires SID after lapse
Athletic department hires Sports Information Director from Bethany College
Two-pointtears
Merandas stellar passing eventually led to a 
12-yard completion to Brad Duesing that put 
the Bears in front 14-7.
The Bears picked on the CMU secondary 
all game, ending the day with 328 yards pass
ing.
The front line and linebackers did a great 
job of stopping the run, said first-year defen
sive back Aaron Lewis, who led CMU with 8 
tackles. With Washingtons talented 
receivers, they found our weaknesses with 
crossing patterns that split our zone.
The Bears got the ball back after a CMU 
fumble and marched right down the field to 
score again.
This time, it was a corner fade from 
Meranda to Buening that gave Washington 
the 21-7 advantage.
The Tartans responded with a quick drive 
highlighted by a 42-yard Stanley run and a 
20-yard reception by first-year receiver 
Micah Dawson. Junior quarterback Jarrod 
Highberger scored on a 3-yard rush.
Dawson has recently seen more action, and 
it looks as though its going to continue. He 
finished the game with 4 receptions for 55 
yards. CMU offensive coordinator Rich 
Erdelyi seems to be willing to pass it a bit 
more.
It feels great to be a part of a changing 
offense, said Dawson. Thanks to the coach
es and a great mentor in Chris Kay, Ive start
ed to show what I can do.
On Washingtons last attempt of the half, 
the CMU secondary was able to hold them to 
a 25-yard Jonathan Feig field goal, and going 
into the locker room the Bears led 24-14.
Crazy play characterized the second half, 
which included two unsuccessful punt snaps 
by Washington and a Bears interception that 
was fumbled back to CMU on the same play, 
though much further downfield.
CMU recovered one of the bad snaps and 
converted it into a 12-yard Stanley touch
down run to bring the score to 24-21 in 
Washington's favor.
After the second blown snap gave CMU a
by Anubhav Nikhil Sinha
Staffwriter
The mens and womens basketball programs enter the 
2003-2004 season with at least three things in common: 
similar styles of play on the offensive court, a commit
ment to defense, and another year of stiff competition in 
arguably the strongest basketball conference in mens 
and womens NCAA Division III athletics.
The womens basketball team will begin the upcoming 
season with a new look and great versatility on offense. 
Despite losing three players to graduation and nagging 
injuries to a few of the returning players, the team is 
starting to gel and has showed a flair for the transition 
game. This team wants to run, said head coach Gerri 
Seidl. Weve already found a couple of good lineups, and 
it seems we have more flexibility. The emergence of an 
up-tempo identity is a pleasant surprise for the team, 
which was expected to be more of a half-court offense. 
Playing solid defense is also a key goal, and the team has 
been emphasizing rebounding in recent practices. Strong 
defense is a penchant for Seidl, who believes Defense is 
all heart, and all about pride.... The players are respond
ing, and theyre working hard. Even though three play
ers have graduated, the womens team has several play
ers with at least two years of experience, which will be a 
valuable asset in guiding the team against the rest of the 
University Athletic Association (UAA). Seniors Elizabeth
grew up cheering, his immediate goals are to expose the 
Carnegie Mellon athletic department to western 
Pennsylvania.
I want to publicize the athletic department and pro
grams, said Rose. I want to promote student accom
plishments and get our athletes the recognition they 
deserve.
In the short run, Rose will handle scores and stats for 
CMU sports teams, in addition to creating media guides 
and publications.
For football, soccer, and basketball games, Rose will be 
on-hand compiling statistics continually throughout the 
game.
Lackner stressed the convenience of having these sta
tistics available immediately following football games.
It is my duty to be here for every home game, said 
Rose. I want to initially publicize in the Pittsburgh 
papers and then work on expanding the market.
Though Roses idea of expanding the market includes 
publishing CMU sports news in local cities newspapers, 
such as those in Youngstown, OH and Washington, PA, he 
does not see any reason why he should not expand to 
newspapers across the country.
If two basketball players from New Jersey have a great 
game, their hometown should know about it, said Rose.
The move from small-town Bethany College, which 
holds only 900 students, to Carnegie Mellon was a bit 
hectic for Rose.
However, the transition period has gone very smooth
ly, much thanks to the athletic staff which, according to 
Rose, has been very supportive thus far.
According to Harvey, Roses first week went very well.
He picks up on things really fast, and he knows about 
the sports teams already.
Were glad to have him on board, Lackner said. We 
think hell be a great addition to the department.
Jarrod Highberger is brought down by a Washington defender. Despite this sack, Highbergers 173 passing yards were proficient Saturday afternoon.
by Preston Treichel
Staffwriter
Last Saturday, Washington University 
came to Gesling Stadium in a game hailed by 
many as the potential conference champi
onship. After sixty minutes of a hard-fought
battle that provided numerous lead changes 
and a thrilling, last-second finish, the Bears 
emerged victorious 37-35.
The game seesawed up and down the field 
all game, but CMU struck first blood. After 
CMU botched a field goal snap, the Tartans 
second scoring attempt was successful, end
ing with a one-yard run by junior fullback
Brad Stanley to lead 7-0.
Almost immediately after the second quar
ter commenced, the Bears knotted the game 
with a 51-yard pass reception from quarter
back Adam Meranda to receiver Jeff Buening. 
Buenings dive got him in the end zone to tie 
the game.
Washington scored on their next drive, as
See BASKETBALL, page All
by Bary Dunn
Sports Editor
Brian Rose began working as 
Sports Information Director at 
Carnegie Mellon last Monday, as the 
University ended a four-month lapse 
without an SID.
Prior to his being hired by Carnegie 
Mellon, Rose served as Sports 
Information Director for six years at 
his alma mater, Bethany College.
When the search finally began one 
month ago, athletic director John 
Harvey received twenty-two applica- ic2M. hend
tions.
The three-member selection committee, comprised of 
head football coach Rich Lackner, head women's basket
ball coach Gerri Seidl, and Harvey, interviewed four of 
these applicants.
According to Harvey, Roses track record was hard to 
pass up.
He has great experience in Division III and in the 
area, said Harvey.
To confirm Roses work ethic, Harvey contacted people 
at the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette and Tribune-Review news
papers, who he said described the positive experiences 
that they had with Rose. They also emphasized Roses 
punctuality, noting that he always provided them with 
sports information by the allotted deadline.
He seems like the perfect fit, said Lackner. He has 
the experience, the website knowledge, and the con
tacts.
While Rose has aspirations of working someday for the 
Steelers or Pirates, teams for which the Pittsburgh native

---------------------------------------------------

ven theatereview
.. - -

---------------------------------------------------

STAFF
EDITOR.IN.CHIEF 
MANAGING EDITOR 
PILLBOX EDITOR 
COMICS EDITOR 
PHOTO EDITOR 
ART EDITOR 
COPY MANAGER 
PRODUCTION MANAGER
Andrew Johnson 
Daniel Goldman 
Celanie Polanick 
Neal Shyam 
Jeff Cullers 
Bum Lee 
James Auwaerter 
Jim Puls
Cover by Bum Lee.
The Tartan
Box 1017
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15289-1017
www.thetartan.org
CONTENTS.
page 13: This weeks most watched 
couple.
T g ocwkdncM2.v M De.mf
Pittsburgh Symphony.
lke3vk h2ef
Punk politics.
lkd nMvdn e7 n3wwdnnf
Dramats find work.
8 ? Founde iogeIpdt
A flashy take on Brecht.
socd{B qIBt
War paranoia.
11 ? ioHd(nIpd(t
Bohr and Heisenberg.
12n i2v -r5n WdMr Ukeyf
Zakk Wylde on DVD.
13 o Rnd FIuear^ Mdco{guao(Ct
One Neo-phytes review.
1 8 ? COMICKAZE.
Web comics.
Shacking up:
Prameet Shah, a third-year ECE major, and Nisha Patel, a second-year computa
tional finance major, collect donations as part of this weeks Habishack event, a fundaraiser for CMUs branch of the charity Habitat for Humanity.
tMrd.mMcf
y2rrDeJf C/ PeEdKDdc b//Sf

---------------------------------------------------

Exiles
James Joyce in the Rauh Studio
James Joyces only complete play, Exiles, was never popular on stage. Many critics praised it for its autobiographical nature, which gave insight into the renowned authors life, but criticized it for its lack of openness. Joyce failed to include key information about relationships, leaving the audience unsatisfied. There seems to be no reasoning for the characters behavior. Critics have said that the majority of the play exists inside Joyces head, instead of on the stage. This production, while performed well, cannot overcome the flaws of the writing itself.
Through the entanglement of two couples, 
Exiles deals with relationships between men and women and how love, friendship, honesty, and jealousy affect them. It is a very intellectual play, with much more conversation than action. Every scene involves two characters discussing one of the plays themes, usually in very idealistic terms.
The play starts with two of the four characters, Richard Rowan and Beatrice Justice, talking in the garden. Beatrice has just returned from a short journey to the country, and Richard has recently returned to Ireland from Italy. Richard discusses how Beatrice has influenced his writing, and tries to get her to admit that she has feelings for him. She shies away because Richard is married. The characteristics of their relationship are blurred and never really clarified. The scene does not flow well; touching briefly on one heated conversation topic after another, such as Richards mother and Beatrices past relationships. In the first scene , we learn that Richard and his wife Bertha went away for nine years, but we do not know what happened during that time. Robert Hand is Richards best friend and Beatrices cousin. The primary plotline of the play involves Roberts affections for Richards wife, Bertha, and their proposed adultery. Bertha is jealous of what she thinks is Richards love for Beatrice and of his past infidelities. She is honest with her husband about his friends advances. Surprisingly, Richard does not seem to care about Roberts plans and encourages Bertha to make her own decisions. This tortures Bertha because she wants Richard to love her and be jealous of another mans advances, but instead he almost pushes her away.
Richard confronts Robert about his treachery but is more angry at him for trying to keep it secret than at the act itself. Robert is confused but still cares deeply for Bertha. He offers to step back out of respect for their lifelong friendship, but Richard insists that he doesnt care. One major writing flaw is that Richards strange insistence is never explained. He never tells Robert or Bertha why he wants Bertha to be free to make her own choices, or why he does not see Roberts advances as a betrayal of their friendship. Bertha supposes it is because Richard wants to be free with Beatrice, but he never explains, only hinting at a masochistic reasoning for his behavior.
Courtesy of Stevie OBrian Agnew
Andrew Russell and Polly Harrison in Exiles.
Bertha clearly loves her husband, and only wants him to love her in return. When he gives her the cold shoulder, she turns to Robert, but is unsatisfied. Richard does not seem capable of love. At one time, he cared enough about Bertha to run away with her, despite their unequal social standing. But with his present coldness, he pushes her to infidelity with his best friend. Richard doesnt seem to love either his wife or his best friend, and is nonchalant about Roberts sudden departure at the end of the play. Richard does not care about anyone but himself or anything but his own self-under- standing.
The cast was excellent. Andrew K. Russell gave the playboy Robert a convincing comic flair. His hopeless romanticism was the major source of amusement for the play. Ethan Hova demonstrated Richard's conflicting emotions well; not even he could tell what he wanted. As Bertha, Polly Harrison portrayed a strong woman well. Despite lines that suggested she was simple, she understood more about her husband than he seemed to understand himself. As Beatrice, Kate Marilley played a smaller role, but her acting was unforgettable. Together, they drew the audience into the story, even with minimal scenery. Jeffery Golubchicks stark scenic design with sketchy props and setting allowed the characters more freedom of movement, but still created well-defined spaces for them to interact in. Stevie OBrian Agnews lighting design helped define the mood of each scene and directed the audiences attention well.
The actors filled out their complex characters, especially Hova, but the script lacked essential elements. Because Joyce failed to fill in the background, the audience did not understand why the characters does what they did. Aine Donnellys directing made it easy for the audience to enter the world of early twentieth-century Ireland and get wrapped up in the complexities of the Rowan household, but despite Donnellys solid work and the actors enthusiasm, there was not enough action to keep the play moving.
Buters vutre. vDullTeaDre
CARNEGIE ALMANAC! 
A PICTORIAL TOUR
JO YEARS AGO
An early attempt at photoshopping" the Cathedral of Learning 
onto the Carnegie Tech Mall.
WHO *5 TW CULP*}T?f<<>>:<ii r,4 >;< >:>:inir< -toHrnc '+i> ImcM W brXi tmonriAr  <0*e HKMlU* *x let wU * fWMKitf IXM
25 YEARS AGO
A CIT student, confident 
with his trusty slide rule 
(left), is suddenly puzzled 
by his brand new electron
ic calculator (right).
10 YEARS AGO
Singers, sailors, and balloons, 
all courtesy of the annual Mr. 
Fraternity contest.
5 YEARS AGO
Celebrity governors? An 
unimaginable thought 
until a certain Jesse 
Ventura threw his 
weight into the ring.
Matt Art St .iff
1 YEAR AGO
PETA at it again, this time 
protesting the treatment of circus 
elephants.
CMU stude snchtalMcg D,g,yin
1illbox. 10 November 2003.

---------------------------------------------------

A tradition of music
CMUs connection with the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Last Friday was Carnegie Mellon University Day at the Pittsburgh Symphony in 
Heinz Hall. Students, faculty, and alumni were invited to attend an evening of 
modem and classical music, where they could meet the members of the 
Pittsburgh Symphony and faculty members of the Carnegie Mellon School of 
Music.
The evening began with the performance of the Starling Quartet, featuring four 
honors students from the School of Music. The ensemble was composed of mas
ters students Jenny Topilow on viola and Nicole Myers on cello, Daniela Shtereva 
on violin, and sophomore Eunice Keem on violin. Roughly two dozen attendees 
came early to sit in the luxurious hall and listen to the quartet. Others went into 
the auditorium early to engage in a pre-concert symposium, including a lecture by 
Alan Fletcher, head of the School of Music, and Roberto Sierra, the composer 
whose work was being showcased that evening. The majority of the lecture was 
dedicated to the discussion of Sierras work. He explained the motivations and 
inspirations for his compositions. Fletcher said the works seemed to be influenced 
by ethnic musical forms, and described them as drenched in dance. The lecture 
lasted only 30 minutes, after which the concert began. The audience filled most 
of the hall and included quite a few students. The large attendance became much 
more apparent at the reception after the concert, during which CMU students and 
faculty were able to mingle with the musicians.
Both the Carnegie Mellon School of Music and the Pittsburgh Symphony are 
world-renowned institutions.... It made sense for them to form a partnership, 
said Robert Schiller, associate vice president of advancement at Carnegie Mellon, 
emphasizing the long-term nature of the relationship between the School of 
Music and the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra (PSO).
The affiliation actually dates back to Andrew Carnegie, who financed the 
Pittsburgh Symphony, Schiller said. He said he hoped that more joint collabora
tions could be arranged in the future.
It would be nice to arrange something where students could come to the 
rehearsal early, and then the show, he said. Schiller previously worked at the 
New England Conservatory of Music in Boston, and said that though the 
Conservatory was located in close proximity to the Boston Symphony, joint col
laborations were extremely rare. In Pittsburgh, he said, there is more of a backand-forth between the School of Music and the Symphony. Many great musicians 
come to play with the Pittsburgh Symphony, and their expertise can be used to 
enrich the lives of CMU students.
We can arrange guest visits for nominal or no fees, said Schiller.
Numerous faculty members are current or former members of the PSO. 
According to Dr. Fletcher, 23 current or former PSO members are current faculty 
members at the School of Music.
We are interested in creating incentive for more students to attend, Dr. 
Fletcher said.
The Symphony has been trying to broaden its audience base in other ways as 
well, both by playing more popular music and by promoting lesser-known mod
em pieces. Pittsburgh Symphony community spokesman Kenneth Meltzer said 
that efforts were being made to make the PSOs music more accessible.
We are trying to convince audiences about the compelling nature of modern 
music, Melzer said.
nEcci nomg1us. vDullTeaDre
REVIEW: /fW111: - I
Assorted Selections 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra 
Heinz Hall, Downtown 
November Th 8 pm
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra (PSO) gave an impressive and vigorous per
formance at Heinz Hall last Friday. Conductor David Zinman led the PSO through 
three pieces, including two modern works by American composer Roberto Sierra 
and a symphony by Richard Strauss..
The performance opened with Sierras short and spritely Fandangos. The use of the 
tam-tam, cencerros, castanets, and marimba contributed to the pieces playful and 
exotic sound.
In a question-and-answer session before the concert, Sierra referred to Fandangos 
as coquettish. This description is apt, but it is also important to note the raw vital
ity and verve of the piece. Powerful yet whimsical, Fandangos is reminiscent of 
Ravels Bolero. The audiences response was overwhelmingly positive, especially to
the brass and percussion sections.  .
For its second piece, the orchestra played the world premiere of Sierras Concerto 
for Violin and Viola, featuring Andres Cardenes on violin and Roberto Diaz on 
viola. It was nice to hear a piece designed to showcase the beauty and range of the 
viola, the oft-neglected stepchild of the orchestra.
The Concerto called for a range of notes not often played on viola: rapid-fire arpeg
gios, Latin rhythms, and fluid melodies, all while showcasing the solo talents of 
many different players in the orchestra, in this piece, Sierra uses the entire orches
tra, and stretches them to the lengths of what is physically possible. The PSO was 
up to the task, however. Diaz and Cardenes performed with intensity and inim
itable technical prowess. Zinmans direction kept everyone together perfectly for 
what proved to be a seamless and powerful premiere..
In the second half of the concert, the PSO performed Richard Strauss Symphonia 
Domestica, Opus 53(1904), a musical depiction of Strauss domestic life and a trib
ute to his family. Strauss wife, Pauline, a retired soprano and notorious nag, was a 
source of both personal frustration and musical inspiration.
Strauss wrote themes to represent his wife and their son, Franz Alexander, heard 
continually throughout the piece. Before the piece, Zinman spoke briefly on the 
symbolic content of the piece, working through the themes and explaining what 
each represented. This information was extremely helpful in understanding the 
piece.
The Symphia Domestica began with a bright Scherzo movement, depicting the 
child at play; moved on to a love scene in a tender adagio tempo; and culminated 
with a massive family fight and reconciliation in the booming Finale. The PSO did 
a marvelous job of conveying the emotion of Strauss and his family, representing 
the babys cries with blaring horns and Paulines nagging with shrill violins. These 
themes were so evocative that they often moved the audience to laughter and 
earned the PSO a standing ovation.
%v ' \ V   ''*  ' ;J \ o
t * ! - & * * r ^ ? H * < ~ *
nEcci nomg1us. vDullTeaDre
hSI Jgf ? V p
-1 ...........................................................................................................................................^
41illbox. 10 November 2003.

---------------------------------------------------

This poli-earthquake is long overdue!
Thought Riot preaches down with the man
Behold the revolution here in the hearts of you and 
I. We hold the revolution in our songs, sings Thought 
Riot frontman Marc Riot in With Love, The 
Underground. Its the first of a dozen tracks on the 
Californian quintets album Sketches of Undying Will, 
which drops tomorrow.
The songs lyrically go deeper. Theyre not so much 
in-your-face. Theyre a little bit more philosophical, 
said Riot of the new album before the bands show at 
Pittsburgh's Rex Theater last month.
Thought Riot might seem like just another politipunk band at first, but over time, both the lyrics and 
the delicate blend of hardcore punk and melodic over
tones will grow on listeners.
Their musical style and thought-provoking lyrics 
are shown off in A Song In Response To..The songs 
vocals begin with Riot sounding like he is shouting 
into a megaphone, challenging how politicians speak 
with empty rhetoric and endorse pre-emptive war. 
Other band members reply in a captivating chorus of 
examples. Riot then races through a poetic political 
essay.
Drummer Adam Parker enhances A Song In 
Response To... with his thunderous drumming. As
Riot sings about sounding the war drums, Parker 
pounds the anti-war drums.
Guitarist Kelley Dangerously adds a euphonious 
touch over heavier riffs that helps distinguish the 
band from its hardcore peers. Her buzz-saw guitar at 
the beginning of Ink Soaked Pages is exhilarating. In 
The Hermit of Sils Maria, she belts out the high 
notes on guitar and screams the low ones in back-up 
vocals.
[The punk scene] really is kind of male-dominated 
... especially being in a hardcore-driven band, where 
theres a lot of testosterone, said Dangerously. With 
her fierce, piercing roar, Dangerously only adds to the 
bands intensity.
I Voted for Nader is the other true stand-out on 
the new album. The song blends together a melodic 
guitar line over the bands ferocious hardcore and 
supports third-party politics.
Its not an advertisement for Nader necessarily, but 
[conveys], Vote for whoever you want; dont be 
dragged in by the majority, said Bryan Fantastic, one 
of the bands two guitarists.
Thought Riot is most impressive for its
sesquipedalian hardcore, using sophisticated vocabu
lary to proclaim their profound insight. The albums 
artwork juxtaposes pictures of the band performing 
energetically onstage with shots of them sitting down 
reading books. Songs like Youre Gonna Die [Unless 
Youre White And/Or Rich] and A Song In Response 
To... deliver enlightening pseudo-intellectual social 
commentaries.
Thought Riot also discuss more personal issues in 
their lyrics. Hard Words is a mundane track that still 
rocks to the core. With Love, The Underground and 
On New Tablets present distinct but equally fasci
nating sentiments about the underground punk com
munity. The former embraces the close-knit commu
nity and predicts success in activist struggles, where
as the latter criticizes shallow-mindedness within the 
punk scene.
The band excels at straightforward hardcore, but 
fares nicely when treading foreign waters. Walking 
Stick for the Weak is the albums slow song, relative
ly speaking, but it still maintains a driving momen
tum. The bands friends join in for back-up vocals, 
making the music more compelling.
Cycle of the Streets has a peculiar style to it, with 
talk-fast punk rock instead of any yelling or singing. 
The song is about the cruel world of living on the 
streets. Even through different musical styles, the 
bands messages come across powerfully.
When Thought Riot speeds or screams through the 
vocals, the content of their lyrics may get neglected. If 
you listen to the CD comfortably at home, definitely 
read along in the lyric book with a dictionary nearby.
Otherwise, the band implores listeners to check out 
their key issues on the Internet. The Thought Riot Info 
Center (ThoughtRiot.com) and the Underground 
Action Alliance (UndergroundActionAlliance.org) both 
lead to a helpful library for political activism and 
polemics.
Some of Thought Riots progressive stances are con
troversial, but the band is content merely provoking 
thought on the issues they discuss, even if not all lis
teners agree.
Its good to get [feedback] because people are 
reading the lyrics and thinking about [the issues] 
themselves, said Riot. I hope people that read [the 
lyrics] that completely disagree have to think about 
why they disagree. Most punk fans will agree, how
ever, that this release begs to be heard.
nao1urc 5eEcush. vrsaEe vDullTeaDre
Courtesy of Thought Riot
Thought Riots members are, from left to right, drummer Adam Parker, singer Marc Riot, guitarist Kelley 
Dangerously, guitarist Bryan Fantastic, bassist Mikey Wunderbar.
1illbox. 10 November 2003.

---------------------------------------------------

Taught in the act
How dramats make the sometimes difficult transition from students to stars
Glitz and glory do not come easily for most CMU drama majors after graduation. Some leave school without lining up a single audition; others leave with the doors of opportunity flung wide open. One week, they may be in the national tour of some production or filming a commercial, but the next week, alumni may be at home, looking through the classifieds. Getting a foot in the door right after graduation can be one of the hardest parts of a career in show business.
CMUs drama department tries to aid the process as much as possible. As a class, accompanied by several teachers, seniors travel to Los Angeles and New York City for an event called Leagues, where they showcase their talent and skill to agents, managers, and casting directors in hopes of being signed. An agent is responsible for sending out resumes and headshots to casting directors and finding work for its clients.
Almost everyone receives requests to send in their pictures and resume, said Barbara MacKenzie-Wood, associate professor of acting. Some students get 50 requests, while others receive only three or four.
Leagues cuts down on the amount of time a student has to spend making connections on his own. Some students are fortunate and immediately get signed with an agent, while other students go home empty- handed. Leagues is a collaboration between other drama schools, including Northwestern University,University of Illinois, and Rutgers University.
Designers also attend Leagues in Los Angeles and New York City, but they do
same showcase opportunity. Instead, the drama department organizes a cocktail party attended by alumni in the business. There, students pass around portfolios, and professionals hand out business cards.
Lauren Alvarez, a design major who graduated in 2002, said that Leagues was an opportunity for her to meet different people and to see how the industry operates, but that contacts, even good ones, do not necessarily turn into steady work.
You get phone numbers and names, she said.
Its not so much that you get a job but rather a Give me a call and Ill see what I can do. 
It is important that students do well at Leagues, but networking happens every day in school as well. Many professors work regularly onstage or behind the camera as well as in the classroom and wield the power to recommend students to friends and colleagues in the business. Professors try to evaluate what a students strengths are and sometimes guide a student toward particular kinds of work.
The faculty here does recommend students for certain situations, so classwork counts, said Ingrid Sonnichsen, an associate professor of acting.
As well as keeping tabs on the varying talent of students, professors say they also take into account the students attendance and work habits.
Sometimes, school productions afford students networking opportunities with professionals and other alumni. Telly Leung, a 2002 musical theatre graduate, signed on with an agent after Leagues. However, Leungs debut on Broadways Flower Drum Song was not through his agent, but though connections with Billy Porter, a 1991 musical theatre graduate who had returned to CMU as a visiting director. The two fostered a relationship in the spring semester of 2002, while working together in Porters production of 
Company, in which Leung performed the lead role.
He had friends from Miss Saigon that were involved in Flower Drum Song and he thought I was right for the show, said Leung.
In March of Leungs senior year, Porter arranged for him to attend an invited dance call where the director and choreographer of Miss Saigon could see him and other prospective actors perform. After rehearsing all night on Company, Leung hopped on a 12:30 am Greyhound and headed for New York City. About ten hours later, with the red-eye bus ride behind him, Leung auditioned. He returned to Pittsburgh in time for class the next day.
In May, before Leagues and graduation, Leung was called back for final auditions. The night before the New York City showcase, Leung was notified that he had gotten a part in the ensemble of Flower Drum 
Song.
[Porter] really helped out. If he didnt, Id probably still be in Pittsburgh, said Leung.
In acting, a profession with a 90 percent unemployment rate, graduating from theater school without an agent or a gig is common. But even then, connections can come into play and turn the situation around.
Eymard Cabling, a 2002 musical theatre graduate, got nothing from Leagues. After graduation, he moved to New York City unemployed, but soon received a call from a friend about an audition for the musical Miss Saigon. With this tip, Cabling headed to Times Square to try out, and was called back the same day. A month later, he joined the North American tour cast of Miss Saigon as a member of the ensemble and
the understudy for the Engineer, one of the lead roles. He has been on tour since June 2002.
A lot of my friends are unemployed in New York City and its not about whos more talented or better. It has to do with the business, the demand, who happens to be at the right place at the right time. Its like a lottery ticket, said Cabling. To this day I dont know why I made it.
Now, Cabling and Leung are both on national tours for their respective shows. The upcoming year already seems packed for the two classmates. Cablings tour of 
Miss Saigon may be extended for its third year in a row, and Leung has been cast in next falls Broadway revival of Pacific Overtures.
Although networking is an integral part of the whole equation to survive in this business, actors must remain tenacious and make their own luck. Porter was lucky as a young actor, but couldnt have carved out his place in the industry without auditioning persistently before he left school.
Because I wasnt hired by any Pittsburgh companies I would go to New York during summer breaks, said Porter. I would always spend time auditioning.
His diligence paid off, and second semester of his senior year he was booked to perform in the ensemble of Miss Saigon. He received internship credit for his performances in New York City and returned in May of1991 to graduate.
The business is set up as such that youre always auditioning for the next job. I auditioned and I continue to audition today, he said.
Since his debut in Miss Saigon, Porter has expanded to different areas of the business other than acting. After completing a screenwriting program at UCLA, Porter started writing his own material. He has also been directing and teaching, but still makes time for acting. This week he will be in Montreal filming the movie Noel, starring alongside Penelope Cruz and Paul Walker.
Actors often branch out into other facets of the business as their careers progress, especially directing, but sometimes working on the administrative end of theater can provide extra money and new contacts to give struggling actors a second start.
Zachary Hailey, a 2002 musical theatre graduate, worked at the Pittsburgh Civic Light Opera House for the summer after graduation before he moved to New York City. Once in the city, he immediately began to audition and got called back for several readings and nothing else. He was ready to throw in the towel.
I wasnt going to act anymore, said Hailey. Meanwhile, Hailey took an interest in producing and, through some close friends, landed a job with the Araca Group, an independent film and theatrical production and management company. There, he became a dialogue coach for the Broadway play Frankie and 
Johnny in the Clair de Lune. Hailey worked alongside Rosie Perez (Riding in Cars with Boys) and Joe
1illbox. 10 November 2003.

---------------------------------------------------

Pantoliano (HBOs Sopranos). After the play dosed, Pantoliano hired Hailey to be his personal assistant.
I was totally starstruck, said Hailey. Pantoliano got a lot of pilot offers after he was killed on the Sopranos. I chose the script for The Handler and I got a real kick out of that. I got the same cool high off of reading scripts and then talking to him about them.
He packed his bags, sold his apartment, and had a plane ticket destined for Los Angeles with Pantoliano. A couple days before his departure, a friend choreographer called and asked him to do one last audition for the play A Tree Grows in Brooklyn. He hadnt booked a show for a year but agreed to try out.
I went in and just sang and it was one of my best auditions, said Hailey. He is currently performing the show at the Godspeed Opera House Regional Theatre in Connecticut as a minor character, and understudies Johnny, a lead.
For some, trying out a new part of the business can lead to a permanent change. Jack Plotnick, a 1991 musical theatre graduate, moved to New York City aiming for Bfoadway. Two years later, he found himself performing in TV comedy sketches, and soon thereafter made several appearances as a reoccurring character on the Conan OBrien Show. Since then, Plotnicks initial dream to pursue musical theatre has changed to pomedy. He left New York, predominantly a theater toWn, and now lives in Los Angeles, where he is writing both a pilot for Comedy Central and a one-man show. A movie he produced and starred in, 
Girls Will Be Girls, is now out in theatres. Plotnick is also filming a movie for VH1, which will air this spring.
In order to be an actor, you have to really trust that things are doing to work out, said Plotnick. You have to float in this uncertainty, but at the core know that you are doing what you love.
Juggling many jobs simultaneously can be hectic, but in a business where almost all jobs are temporary pending the completion of filming or the end of a production, actors often take on many things at once in order to survive. Some work in jobs outside the business in order to finance their continuing search for acting work.
Dave Metz, an acting major who graduated in 1996, resides in Los Angeles, where he is a contributing writer for VLIFE magazine and teaches hearing impaired children at a private elementary school twice every week. The flexible job hours and steady income allow Metz to work as an actor in mostly commercials. He was recently in a Hertz and Saturn car commercial.
The other two jobs facilitate my ability to go to auditions, said Metz. I put the same amount of effort into all and not one takes priority. But teaching and journalism were intended originally to complement the acting deal.
Metz is a testament to the ups and downs of the business. Metz received an overwhelming response at Leagues. He met with 26 casting directors, did not sign on with anyone, and left immediately for the Central School of Speech in London. When he got back, all his offers had been rescinded, and he was forced to find other work. At that point, the honeymoon was over, said Metz. Since then, he has been working on numerous commercials and straddling
different jobs. Metz is also a board member of the West Coast Drama Alumni Clan, which networks and encourages the collaboration between the drama alumni living and working on the West Coast.
Its outside of your control.... Its a rollercoaster ride with this profession, he said.
The ride can be even rougher for actors who do not fit the mold. Phebe Taylor, a 2002 musical theatre graduate, resides in Queens and currently works part- time in real estate, is a NYC tour guide, and for extra money participates in psychological and medical studies.
The 4' 10 1/2" actor attributes the dryness of acting opportunities to her physique. Despite all the things she has on her plate, Taylor concentrates more on auditioning and helping out at the Epiphany Theatre, a company started by CMU alums.
Like Cabling, Taylor moved to New York City unemployed after graduation. There, she found an advertisement for an audition in the back page of a newspaper for a childrens show. She tried out and was immediately cast. Unfortunately, things have been stagnant for Taylor after the show ended.
Since January, Taylor has auditioned over 70 times, and gotten called back, but has only been cast in a play reading.
I am a very specific type of actor. [Even] if I am a great tap dancer, Ill never be able to be in 42nd Street. I am so short that I am considered a child or teenager. I also am not the female lead; Im usually her best friend. There arent many of those roles and the right roles arent coming along, said Taylor.
Physical characteristics cannot be changed or honed like ones performing abilities and it is tough for actors like Taylor who do not fit into the general mold of roles that are more readily available.
Don Wadsworth, professor of voice and speech and dialects, said that in the acting business people are very specific about what they want, and if the person does not fit the bill they will not bother.
Actors who belong to an ethnic minority sometimes have problems too, said Taylor, but some shows require almost all-minority casts.
There are a lot of Asian shows 
The King and I, Miss Saigon,
Flower Drum Song, Pacific 
Overture, she said.  Aint 
Misbehavin is an all-black cast that is one of the most popular productions being done in a lot of regional theatres.
But outside these shows, minority actors can have trouble being cast in major roles, said Leung.
There are not many 23- year-old 5'9" Asian male roles compared to 23-year-old Caucasian blond-haired, blueeyed roles, said Leung. Theres more material for the majority
but for the minority theres less competition but the opportunities are less. Its a different game for me.
Although designers face a different set of problems, they also face the uncertainty that comes with temporary work. Design alumni Alvarezs upcoming project, an exhibition at the Smithsonian, may be pulled out before it starts. She will help to create an exhibition on Saturday Night Live as an assistant to a friend who has worked on Broadway, a prestigious credential in the business. However, plans for the project are not yet finalized, and the exhibition could be cancelled at any moment.
Theatre is never consistent. Theres always a lot of talk, and things dont happen, or you work on something, and things dont work out for a couple of reasons, said Alvarez.
Some theater professionals find the tumultuous process too risky, and prefer to work for themselves.
Unless youre creating your own show, youre at the liberty of someone else, said Ryan Dixon, a masters student at CMUs Entertainment Technology Center who is currently interning in Los Angeles. Youre really at the mercy of someone else, their whim.
Dixon works at Cruz and Wagner Productions, an affiliate of Paramount Pictures, where he is currently shooting this own creative film. Dixon is using DVDs to create a form of storytelling with multiple audio tracks. When he was a student, he made his own films as a way of preparing for the future.
There are a million roads to Mecca, said Dixon. For each person its a combination of luck, who you know, and being at the right place at the right time.
The unpredictability is an intrinsic part of the business that keeps actors wary and ready for anything.
You cant really have it all, said Leung. Job security is something Ive chosen to sacrifice. You can be in a Broadway show one day and one week later have nothing, so you have to save for a rainy day.
The inconsistencies are scary but it keeps me on my toes, excited, and ready to do my job well, said Cabling. Its frustrating at times but you got to beat it.
As artists, they have chosen to forgo the stability that could be found in a nine-to-five job, a decision that often stems from emotional involvement in their work.
If youre an artist and you love what you do, the joy comes from the passion, said Porter. I love what I do and in the larger picture Im ahead of the game. You have your ups and downs but you learn to live with
Hannah Lib 
Staffwriter
1illbox. 10 November 2003.

---------------------------------------------------

A mothers love
Brechts Mother Courage examines war profiteering using the allegory of family relationships
A mothers love can be tough. Mother Courage, the main character of Bertholdt Brechts Mother Courage 
and Her Children, gives her babies as much of it as they can handle.
Brecht designed her to be cruel, as part of an allegory about what happens when war profiteering pits a nation against its own people.
Like every effective piece of theatrical propaganda, the show examines universal political issues through a basic and personal plot. A mother sells junk from a wagon in wartime and loses her three children, one by one, because she cant stop making a profit long enough to save them.
In 1941, when Mother Courage premiered in Zurich, Switzerland, Brecht had already fed his public with searing theatrical treatises on government, the economy, and other topics of lighthearted teatime conversation.
As a theater critic, too, Brecht was harsher than lye; he believed illusory entertainment was tripe and that artists should renounce artifice to improve their polemic credibility.
According to Brechts new laws, actors shouldnt try to be believable, scenic artists shouldnt try to hide the bare brick wall at the back of the theater, and directors should consistently change the rules of reality with subtitles, signs, and songs, all so that audiences wont get too wrapped up in the trappings of the show and forget what theyre really there to see.
Though Aristotle might have cheered at Brechts emphasis on theme, directors looking for cheap, highbrow content sometimes interpret Brechts rules as a recipe for the staged equivalent of cornmeal mush: nutritious, avaricious, and totally un-delicious.
Brechts plays are in the public domain, and require less budget money than a paper airplane, but a good Brecht production is compelling without relying on all that dreaded drama.
The University of Pittsburgh Repertory Companys production of Mother Courage toes that line rather boldly.
Instead of jarring takes that force the audience to constantly readjust its grip on reality in the world of the play, director Melanie Dreyer fills the stage with spariding spectacle. Brecht would almost certainly have disapproved of Dreyers brassy musical numbers.
In place of the Brechtian convention of illustrating a point with signs, Dreyer accompanies each song with a vaudeville marquis, complete with twinkling frame and saucy pictures.
Dreyers transitions are also full of sass: as soon as the lights go down between each scene, the actors jump out of their somber poses and groove to dance music as they push the scenery around.
Dreyers approach may be very different from what
Brecht had in mind, but the marriage of heavy text and fluffy trappings is surprisingly cohesive.
Julie Rays ever-changing set design exposes the back wall of the space, but also employs black masking curtains to focus our eyes when necessary.
Rays treatment of Mother Courage's all-important wagon is uniquely American: part Conestoga, part Wells-Fargo Wagon.
Marissa Miskanins costumes are also full of very American touches; Mother Courage herself looks just like Rosie the Riveter, and Dreyer has given her a few Rosie-esque muscle poses to ram the point home.
Michael Mehlers lighting design divides time and space clearly, while providing ample mood.
Through what looks like a very effective collaboration between Dreyer and the cast, the acting is also well-defined.
As Mother Courage, lyrical Elena Alexandratos is a treat; her melodious treatment of Brechts brusque language makes us think were listening to Shakespeare.
Much of the rest of the cast is composed of students, whose talent and fresh skill can sometimes overcome a lack of experience. As daughter Katherine, a role with no lines at all, Julie Moreau is eloquent and very
affecting.
But in other cases, the cast was apparently padded with whoever was available. Sentell Harper plays Swiss Cheese, Mother Courages youngest son, broadly and with little grace, and John Steffenauer clunks along as the oldest and best-loved of Mothers litter, Eilif; apart from his charismatic rap number, Said the Woman to the Solider, Steffenauer makes little effort to reach out to the audience.
Throughout this production of what is now considered a modern classic, Dreyer strained out what she wanted from what she didnt, tweaking Brechts intentions to suit her purpose.
But if Brecht were alive today, he might have appreciated the shows punch and pizzazz as one way to skin a cat; audience members will chuckle, gasp, and sigh for Mother Courage just as much as for any cheesy musical or murder mystery, and may actually come out thinking in spite of themselves.
Though its hardly the most serious production of 
Mother Courage ever done, Pitt Reps offering is well worth watching.
5rcusar NEcusaob. Nacc$EC phaDEe
CARNEGIE MELLON
\ 11
JUAN PABLO IZQUIERDO, MUSIC DIRECTOR
% * ! v I .-t*. *
< - V&-T*-.
Jam e s G a f tig a n , G est C o n d u c t o r 
T HE CLEVELAND ORCHES TR A
PROGRAM:
Debussy PrihdehV tipris midi dun (nine
Mahler Three Song$
Christine free  soprano 
1 homis Oclsvf - b aril-on?
M a hi er Syrr.pheny Mt>. I.
Friday, November lln 8 pm
Tickets: $5 
FREE with student ID
Carnegie Music Hall, Oakland
y2rrDeJf C/ PeEdKDdc b//Sf

---------------------------------------------------

?
War and inner peace
Leslie Ayvazian stars in her own play about paranoia
Last week, the Pittsburgh City Theatre showed the actually was. 
world premiere of Lovely Day, a play by Leslie 
Ayvazian, an accomplished actress and playwright 
who has received acclaim in both genres and who cur
rently maintains a recurring role on the television 
show Law and Order: Special Victims Unit as Judge 
Valdera.
Lovely Day stars Ayvazian as Fran, a slighdy neurot
ic, middle-aged housewife whose hobbies include 
rearranging furniture and holding candlelight vigils. 
Lovely Day also stars Law and Order and Sex in the City 
veteran Sam Freed as Martin, an urbane business 
executive and husband to Fran. Their son Brian, a 16- 
year-old high school student who never adds much to 
the story, is played by Christopher Schram, a recent 
Point Park graduate. Tracy Brigden directs in her third 
season as City Theatres Artistic Director. The first 
scene opens at Fran and Martins upscale apartment; 
Abigail Hart Gray and Tony Ferrieri receive double 
billing for creating a set made up of loans from Weiss 
House Furniture in Shadyside. Fran, who spends the 
majority of the first scene arranging and rearranging 
the set furniture as an obsessive-compulsive tic, shows 
no love for Martin, who has just recendy received a 
promotion. Her sole focus in life at this time appears 
to be the distant threat of a possible war. Brian enters 
and informs his parents that earlier in the day a gov
ernment man came into his class and made all the 
boys sign some form. It is never revealed who this man
The next scene finds the couple in a state of disar
ray; Fran has revealed to Martin that she intends to 
kidnap their son Brian in order to prevent him from 
ever having to enter a war. She has even packed her 
bags. Through this scene, the author attempts to relay 
a message of peace. Her message; however, is lost in 
Frans neurotic mannerisms and pattern of speech. 
Fran comes across as being fairly insane, which 
destroys all her possible credibility. In contrast, her 
husband Martins patriotism and keen sense of duty 
come across as the real heart of the play. Audience 
members who dont read the playbill might never real
ize that Ayvazian wanted this piece to be about peace, 
not patriotic duty. There is no real resolution at the 
end of the play. Martin, a former lieutenant in the 
army during Vietnam, still believes that if his son is 
called upon, it is Brians duty to go to war. Fran still 
plans on kidnapping Brian, and Brian remains a 
vacant character. There is no hint as to whether their 
marriage will survive, and there is no real path to war. 
After an hour and a half, without intermission, the 
play ends with no climax and no resolution to the 
story.
Leslie Ayvazian states in the playbill, I dont try to 
force my viewpoint on other people. Mine is quiet 
activism  I stand vigil, Im silent, I pray, Im a pres
ence. Im placing the play out there. I hope it inspires
conversation. I hope it gets people to talk about alter
natives to war, and to imagine possibilities for a better 
world. Its a very nice thought that just wasnt suc
cessfully transmitted by this particular play. The dia
logue between Fran and Martin was fairly natural, 
and their on-stage chemistry made Ayvazian and 
Freed believable as husband and wife. The characters 
themselves, however, were underdeveloped and 
somewhat boring to watch. Brian was a pointless 
character. He had no critical lines, and didnt even 
seem crucial to the plot. His presence may have been 
an attempt at comic relief; however, he was far from 
funny or even mildly entertaining.
Lovely Day, which runs from November 1 until 
December 14, did have some bright spots. The set 
included lovely upscale furniture, most of which is 
currendy for sale, and tasteful tortoise-shell wood 
paneling on the walls. The play used no music, though 
it did utilize sound bites from current news programs 
and variety shows in between scenes. The sound clips 
are effective at making the audience members feel the 
same sense of paranoid doubt that Fran does.
All in all, Lovely Day is a bit of a bust. It means well, 
but falls far short of its lofty goal. Its message of peace 
is lost in delivery.
:rssar vo1TraDWre. :tsaEe vDullTeaDre
Dangerous Masons
Quantum Theatres production of Closer highlights urban loneliness
Quantum Theaters production of Patrick Marbers 
Closer opens with Alice, a hard-partying London waif, 
picking at the scab she cant quite remember acquir
ing. The image is apt for a production that deals so 
intimately with the pain we bring on ourselves and 
the strange masochism that makes us pick at a sore 
spot instead of leaving it to heal. Through a dizzying 
series of volatile relationships, the four characters 
examine fidelity, trust, consequence, and need.
Alice (Erika Cuenca) is young, beautiful, wild, and 
dangerously candid. These traits make her eminendy 
appealing to Dan (Tom Schaller), a straight-laced 
obituary writer who accompanies her as she goes to 
the hospital after being hit by a car. Impetuous Alice 
carries nothing but a small bag, but Dans briefcase 
seems to contain all of his resignation and frustration 
with the normal, respectable life hes living. Before 
long, the encounter has spun into a relationship, and 
Dan has taken on a stronger version of Alices whynot attitude. No longer the self-described reserved 
man he was, Dan now splits his attentions between a
dismayed Alice and Anna (Lauri Klatscher), who loves 
his attitude but feels called upon to fight him off due 
to his relationship with Alice. Dan, getting more and 
more obsessed, goes so far as to set up a meeting 
between Anna and a stranger from a sex chat room, 
unbeknownst to Anna. When Anna meets Larry (John 
Shepard) and discovers a mutual attraction, the two 
set off a domino effect of shifting alliances among the 
four.
As personalities change and sex clouds the issue of 
who needs whom, and why, and how, audience mem
bers are constantly forced to reevaluate where their 
sympathies lie. Alice initially seemed the most free
wheeling and self-reliant, but becomes more fragile 
and vulnerable as she grows to love Dan, who is too 
busy gratifying himself to notice her. Anna seems to 
have the most integrity of all of them, and is perhaps 
the one most likely to simply walk away from the 
increasingly complicated and hurtful dalliances, but 
as the play progresses, she recedes into passiveaggressive waffling. Larry comes across as naive and
shy at first, but soon starts to talk openly about every
ones selfish motivations with painful honesty and 
much-needed humor. And Dan, who has facilitated 
most of these interactions, finally experiences the dis
regard he has been dealing others.
Director Karla Boos has framed this confusing world 
clearly. The shifting walls that surround the charac
ters serve as a poignant reminder of their changing 
vulnerabilities. Quantums plays happen in obscure 
locations around town, but Booss choice of a down
town parking garage works well to convey the gritti
ness of London. Boos has again chosen a powerful 
piece that examines the sides of humanity, and the 
consequences of human relationships that most of us 
would just as soon leave hidden.
The play runs through November 23, in the 
Jackman Building downtown. Call 412.394.3353 for 
tickets and directions.
mciau Nutchasd. :tsaEe vDullTeaDre
1illbox. 10 November 2003.

---------------------------------------------------

.00
Vestigial wings
Lamarcks evolutionary theories belied his regressive behavior
Directed by drama professor Scott Lee 
Denier and currently playing at The 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, Dan OBrien's 
Laimrrk is a tale of evolutionary theories, 
mental isolation, and human, nature, 
Lamarck is based on the life of Jean 
Baptiste Pierre Antoine De Monet, 
Chevalier De Lamarck (1744-1829), a 
French naturalist: who was, recognized only 
after his death for his work in the field of 
biology and invertebrates (both teams he 
coined), a nd for his unique theory of evolu
tion. This pre-Darwinism theory known m 
"The inheritance of acquired characteris
tics, suggested that a species could devel
op certain characteristics during its lifetime 
in order to better adapt to the environment. 
Those enhanced characteristics would then 
be passed down to the offspring to ensure 
its survival in the process of natural selec
tion. Lamarcks theory becomes the under
lying theme of OBrien^ play, O'Brien 
brings to light one mans belief in the 
power of the individuals will.
The play is set in Paris and focuses Lamarck's mentally til daughter Comelse, who spends her entire life imprisoned in the museum where her lather works. Aiphaeus, a young man from the United States, comes to Cornelie for information on her father. He plans to write a book about Lamarck. After befriending the odd 
woman, Alpheus is pulled into Comelies memories of a father she both loved and hated with great passion.
As OBrien interprets him, Lamarck is aloof, making this a difficult role, but Ronald Siebert plays Lamarck with ease and authority, Penelope Mill Lindblom, 
who plays Coraelie, does an inviting and charming interpretation of the character, though her French accent could stand some improvement. Comedies mental state and the blunt tactlessness of her dialogue are used for comic relief throughout the play. At times, the age of the character is unclear due to her consistent costume, 
manner, and appearance. She is the one element of the play that transcends time. 
She lives in a dear bqx upon the stage labeled Formation of Theory,19 which director Denier uses to establish, her as more theory than human.
The play lumps from Cornelies flashbacks of Lamarck to her present interaction with Alpheus, However, due to her mental illness, Alpheus cannot decipher between what stories are real and which ones are 
figments of the fantastic womans imagination. Alpheuss feelings towards Qxnelie are equally uncertain, At times, their relatiotiship could be labeled m love, but a seeming age difference makes them an improbable couple, Marots Stevens, who plays Alpheus, seems Ies successful next to the magic of Lindtofn. His naivete seems forced, despite an endearing smile. In Comelies vivid memories, Lamarck is hungry for battles of the mind and heart. In a sequence of flashtwks., Lamarck proves Ms bravery in the army, becomes involved in the study of biology and earns a position under a renowned scientist, and is assigned to woiit with invertebrates in the National Museum of Natural History- While working there he falls in low witn and marries a young artist, Sophie, However, their marriage is soon filled with great despair because several of their babies die, Daina Michelle Griffith plays Sophie with grace, fervor, and emotional depth.
Later in the play, Benjamn Franklin [Heath Lamberts) comes to dine with the Lamarcks. The gaseous Franklin relieves the tension of the play and lightens the mood, even Me dealing with heavy sub
jects, After he insults Cornelies mental capabilities and continuously farts, Sophie erupts in an emotional outburst of motherly grief. The grief over her lost children eventually brinp Sophie to kill herself, thus leaving Cornelie alone with Lamarck, 
After Sophie dies, Cornelie serves as Lamarcks dutiful assistant,, and they begin 
an incestuous relationship. Lamarck keeps his daughter like a specimen for his personal experiments, waiting to see if she will adapt as his theory predicts. Her failure to change drives her mad and into a self- inflicted isolation,
Just when he is getting closer to uncover
ing the answers hes after, Alpheus must flee. He returns six years later, and finds the woman in a worse condition than before. She has become the victim of her father's faulty ideas, trying to change her life with senseless wishing, and ends up napped in this world of distant voices and unftfiftlling theories,
Lcmmrcfc embodies the intensity of the man's personality, enhanced by Elizabeth Atkinson's powerful sound *Yeano te remi 
Comelie, Sophie, and Franklin. The show makes a good case for human natures /, As Cornelia says, *We cant change just by wanting it *
Lamorcfc runs at the Playhouse through November 23, 200*3. Tickets are $22 and $1$, Call 412,621.4445 for details.
o,apiu SiarawjUTEft
ARI es (March M Apr ! Uhi will aoan bagln fculldlng a paaseraft In piar
paumant isuiiding% fMvklng tot teme flnt-hand H nula faa%Ju8t saems amali becaussa il% ao fwr msy. Heiiver, ito cernirsi wintf flnat and h)i fael prises wtll omm you to postpane fie firajeci unti! alitar yeti flnd an inependfea% wsaltfiy, sufflcfenlly eceentifte patran or ipur braln ihsi^reih fer pii to rseon- aldartte whoie pian allogati*.
TAtiRLi (Afidi 26  May 20-ji Sn*e%, vitamin-ieftJfted ftdfe offendi th poi thatbe, and ttolr aonaimptlafi wlllnot batotersteel.
GEMIMI (Mty Iti Jura21 ) Tamara,puili expriencea trsmendmss feoost In sif-eten henpu tfifck of ttie nmmt- atis slmilaritles. btws^i arsi Einstein, auBqpne'fc lavorile genlus. Tfease quallties Include a large, antarwid mane, and nera? ac% plctures d you tha Me ftoartiig around th etici 
rmt In th hmtk af aarifig srarqjjis.
CNC (June  Juiy 22) Mau ili commit th embar- aaalrig armali imi pm of raptyMig back to an antire d-llst instesadof  individuai as sntamdftd. Itili ili ieave yost oaHir cl26d fami puronUna acciai m toce^ou ite Inter
net faBfrtchfaca riti people in th reai, pieticai wortd.
Li CJuly 23  AiiMj; Jupiter h vary Sarp andwlii continua to mai In tts pradletafele afMt araund th mnr m&intainini ils veglilar elalsighipB to iha mi- VBree"s censaiisticfiB andotlier tiameiily feodles. Thus, tome* il! be i modenfei? auapelaus sy far-a!ig daep-liied tote,. insStidlnjg (but snot ilrnltedi to) fflsd |BMfi istori Hnp, and tempura..
ViftG tugjst 13  Sgpirnber ZZk Corning rate. Ili have a severe!^ ffesplly ifiipa^ or por axial llfa to yau put ori ta3B and f rleneH can no lanpr m pur brlj^t^*dfofid terv nfe ah^aa as an 113 mark to ava al yoti fRom afar.
iiIS!!!!!iliBII!l!il
LifiRA (SepiBmlMv 23  ttethest Sfc- Dude! ksh. It jiM m\s.m yco. That couid haus tean iKUJST.IPM,
SCQP^IO CCktobir 24  Number 2 lb The ifled tomato m yam dinner laMe toinorroif nlgjhl, sudd&a^r avaiwfle ttti angar at m Biii|ug8tad food etelrt positim, wlii Jump up and plaster H&elf ail tmt yoir tee in m unsuceaastui attack attempt. Or at leastttiafaha!yoa8li tail ymrzmmmate when' ste walks m to find pu spmiled amsm jour aauca-co*^ efed kitchen floor Ith Bpaghettl in j?our hair arK! clies stuck
mptrfrm*.
- . . '  -j,;.; {r, * .SAJSIfTMIU {Ntesmmber ta  2lj; Be more specifte timyem wimfipu ask. Santa for a f wry pet and maybe your fiah won't get a 'furigua.
O&mcmU {December 21  January !) After of appredatir^ this dairy industry from afar, pu ill inaliy s&mm ampk^merrt at a k^iy'Vemwit farm, 
% 8ci becoin ^y^sr^Nsntsd liie unfanc^f pioss^a of, making
Aj3UARIiJS Cianuaiy 20  February IS): ttie grass may be iraanar m the atiiaf ald% but at iaa*tjcijrtlda isn't ipray-paintad. Wall, tfiafk hiawymi'll all tbs suffering for moral tilgh-pauiid, wy/my...
fi^ES |Ffe*uafy 19  Wamh Wp. Hbu raaf not baiarne a auaeesalul eartMnr- stany day in ihe urn future, but mar^ a protssional artist will thank ym ktr tihe warmtfi tiist tbs stacks of pur discarded eomies m (Hey aiesp n park benches during the cnkl winter months. %u ill also start ranting out $our tash to ena such artist for$17 a months deualc^nga mtber pmfltafeie flit ref ita S business.
1
y2rrDeJf C/ PeEdKDdc bA/Sf

---------------------------------------------------

A different kind of nuclear family
Michael Frayns Copenhagen studies the father-son relationship between Niels Bohr and Werner Heisenberg
Even non-physics majors have probably heard of 
Bohrs model of the atom and Heisenbergs uncertain
ty principle. Two of the greatest theoretical physicists 
of the 20th century, Niels Bohr and Werner 
Heisenberg are at the heart of Michael Frayns Tony 
Award-winning play Copenhagen, presented by the 
Pittsburgh Irish & Classical Theatre (PICT). The play 
dramatizes Heisenbergs visit to Niels and Margrethe 
Bohrs home in Copenhagen, Denmark, in late 
September 1941, during World War II.
Directed by School of Drama professor Gregory 
Lehane, the show is being performed in the intimate 
Henry Heymann Theatre at the Stephen Foster 
Memorial Hall, near the Cathedral of Learning. PICT 
has brought the play back after a sellout run this sum
mer.
At the start of the play, Bohr (Larry John Meyers), 
Heisenberg (Darren Eliker, a CMU School of Drama 
alumnus), and Margrethe (Mary Rawson) are already 
long-dead. From the afterlife, they set out to recon
struct for themselves what actually took place on that 
day in 1941, going through several interpretations of 
the events. Heisenberg was the head of Germanys 
nuclear physics program. Germany had occupied 
Denmark by this time, and tensions were high. 
Historians have never been able to pin down the pur
pose of Heisenbergs visit to the Bohrs. Was 
Heisenberg trying to recruit his former mentor Bohr, 
who was half-Jewish, to build a bomb for the Nazis?
Bohr refuses to believe that Heisenberg might be visit
ing to use Bohrs knowledge of atom-splitting, or fis
sion, to build a bomb.
There is no way in which fission can be used to pro
duce any kind of weapon, he says firmly, drawing 
rueful laughter from the audience. He is enraged 
when Heisenberg informs him the Germans are work
ing on a nuclear weapon. As Heisenberg recalls Bohrs 
explosive reaction, he tells Bohr, The bomb had gone 
off inside your head. Bohr and Heisenberg are like 
father and son, but become estranged by the war. 
Margrethe, Bohrs worried wife, is the voice of reason 
throughout, although the play depicts her as jealous 
of Fleisenbergs previous favored-son relationship 
with Bohr. At times, the parallels of father and son are 
overdone  the actors frequently refer to the death of 
one of Heisenbergs actual sons, Christian, in a melo
dramatic and overwrought way, even _at the end, 
which is an unwelcome intrusion.
The set, designed by CMU associate professor Anne 
Mundell, consists of a round hill in the middle of the 
stage with clusters of chairs and bare light bulbs stick
ing out of the floor and hanging from the ceiling. 
Actors use moveable chairs to create different set
tings; the hill functions as a nucleus, around which 
the actors circle, colliding with one another like elec
trons and photons. Although physics is central to the 
play, the science is not overpowering: Frayn uses anal
ogy to make difficult concepts accessible. He com
pares fission to a snowballing avalanche, and presents 
Heisenbergs principle  not being able to know both 
the position and the momentum of a particle at the 
same time  as a moment of epiphany. Heisenberg is 
passing under streedights late at night and pictures 
himself as he would be seen by someone looking 
through a telescope from the mountains of Norway. 
He realizes that he would only be visible when he 
passes under the light and invisible the rest of the 
time.
The play also applies the uncertainty principle to 
human behavior; no one can know exacdy why they 
do what they do, but others might have a better idea 
of their motives. Bohr and Heisenberg have different 
recollections of what transpired at their historic meet
ing, their memories clouded by uncertainty. In the 
end, the play leaves us with more questions than 
answers. What did Heisenberg and Bohr discuss in 
Copenhagen? What did their meeting mean for the 
outcome of the war? Even with its deadly serious sub
ject matter, PICTs production is engrossing, thoughtprovoking, and, not least of all, entertaining.
Copenhagen, a production of Pittsburgh Irish & 
Classical Theatre, runs through November 23 at 
Henry Heymann Theatre, Stephen Foster Memorial in 
Oakland. CaH 412.394.3353.
yuers -Ell9uss. voarsor , 2ro1sEcEdi phaDEe
The 
Fajita Grill5865 Ellsworth Ave. Shadyslde, PA 412-362-3030
STUDENTS!
Receive a 10% discount on your meal 
when your show your CMU ID at
The Fajita Grill
Offering 
Authentic Mexican 
Cuisine 
with
Contemporary Flair
Burritos, Enchiladas, Tinga, Fajitas, 
Other Regional Mexican Dishes
Some conditions and restrictions apply. Ask server for details.
1illbox. 10 November 2003.11

---------------------------------------------------

T cln<:t uni>ion<Jrcw.urm.cdu
inix.1 . Andre.cnu.edu*: n<
% movie
by daniel goldman, 
managing editor
Big Als Metal Shop
Zakk Wylde shares his personal side on DVD, Children of Bodom play Laga
Zakk Wylde's Black Label Society 
Boozed, Broozed & Broken-Boned 
Eagle Vision Entertainment
The modern era of Ozzy began when Osbourne 
plucked a young blond phenom barely out of high 
school to be his axe-slinger. Immediately upon his 
arrival, Zakk Wylde established his persona through 
an intricate, soulful mastery of the guitar. While his 
voice was muted, his fingers flew up and down the 
trademark bulls-eye guitar slung over his shoulder, 
side by side with the godfather of metal.
And while other elite guitarists tend to shy away 
from allowing others to emulate and perhaps tarnish a 
sound as unique as theirs, Wylde stood out for all to 
see. Perhaps it was his youth and inexperience that 
allowed him to step out into that spotlight, to let his 
digits do the talking. I would argue that it is his inher
ent sincerity and work ethic. This conclusion is natu
rally not based solely on what I have heard coming out 
of his instrument. Rather, it is the choices that he has 
made in pursuing his musical passions. When decid
ing to work on a project aside from his duties with 
Ozzy Osbourne, Wylde chose to explore his love for 
Southern harmony, to imbue it with a tinge of metal
lic blue, and at the same time light a fire under its ass 
with his incendiary style. There is no mystery 
enshrouding this guitar hero, and thats how it should 
be with Zakk. Whether it is the countrified Allmans 
meet Skynyrd meet Sabbath of his Pride and Glory, or 
the Pantera-plus rattle of the Black Label Society he 
founded, Wylde is a guitar legend with a what-yousee-is-what-you-get ethic who wears his influences on 
his sleeve.
Case in point is an interview on his new live DVD, 
where his beer-induced relaxed look diffuses into a 
doe-eyed reverence when he names Neil Young, Tony 
Iommi, and Eddie Van Halen as his musical reference 
points. Wylde goes even further by including a lesson 
as a special feature on the disc. While this may seem 
almost pedestrian for a guitar hero to include on a 
DVD of his work, Zakks humble approach to teaching 
only serves to reinforce my view of him a man of the 
people. Every aspect of his playing is explained slowly 
and precisely, leaving no doubt (perhaps mistakenly) 
that you yourself could come within some distance of 
his ability.
If we look at the man behind the gruff voice, scruffy 
beard, and ready-for-action chain on his wallet, I 
believe what we see is a man of true substance to go 
along with his talent. Even more evidence is found in 
a three-minute video of Zakk singing with his baby 
daughter. If that isnt enough of a reason for you to 
check out this DVD, know that the video quality is 
superb, the features are included aplenty, and that the 
replay value is high. Blah blah blah. Check out this 
video disc for the man behind the tunes.
This weeks metal event: Children of Bodom, 
Nevermore, Dimmu Borgir, and Hypocrisy are playing 
Club Laga on Nov. 16. Call 412.687.4636 for details.
The Professional
4Xdm.dnmMuH RHC/H M.m Cb
A 12-year-old named Mathilde develops a really 
creepy crush on the really creepy guy who lives next 
door. Hes the kind of neighbor who loves his plants 
and kills people for a living. Mathildes dad does 
drug work for the police, but not the kind that you 
would expect the police to engage in (i.e. the legal' 
kind). Daddy tries to pull a fast one on the cops, and 
they kill everyone in the family except Mathilde, who 
was out buying groceries. Shes a bit pissed about 
her brother being dead, at least (sigh ... kids these 
days are so ungrateful!), and when she learns that 
the creepy guy next door is a hitman, she convinces 
him to train her so she can avenge her brothers 
death.
Deep Crimson
4lk3cnmMuH RHC/H M.m Cb
A couple of really shady characters use sex to kill 
some lonely, desperate people, people who look and 
act a lot like some people you probably know, and 
then steal money from them, which is something the 
people you know dont have a lot of or youd have 
thought of this a long time ago.
Legally Blonde 2
4Oc2mMuH RHC/H M.m Cb
Like, everything Reese Witherspoons character did 
to totally perk up that bummer of a Harvard law 
school, she totally does to our nations, like, capital 
and stuff! And saves the animals! Elle Woods for 
president, totally! Tee hee!
American Wedding
4UM3cmMuH RHC/H M.m Cb
Jason Biggs character is going to get married. Im 
sure his character has a name, but the only name 
that really matters in this movie is the name Stifler. 
If youve seen any of the other American Pie movies, 
you probably already know what sort of jokes youre 
in for, but youll laugh at them anyway, and if you 
havent seen it yet, you constitute a small but 
depressing minority of people who are bringing the 
rest of us down with your cultural ignorance.
Cry-Baby
4U3.mMuH RHC/H M.m Cb
Directed by John Waters, Johnny Depp cries. I 
dont know what to say. And that scares me.
mc$reD 5E1rs. vrsaEe vDullTeaDre
Courtesy of Children of Bodom
Children of Bodom, above, will play Laga on Nov. 16 with Nevermore, Dimmu Borgir, and Hypocrisy.
1
1illbox. 10 November 2003.

---------------------------------------------------

The Matrix: Revolutions
Ending disappoints fans left hoping since the second movies mediocrity
The Matrix: Revolutions begins with Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss), Morpheus 
(Laurence Fishburne), and the program Seraph (Collin Chou) entering the Matrix 
to rescue Neo, who slipped into a coma at the end of the second film and is now 
trapped in a limbo between the Matrix and the real world. After an inventive gunfight, Neo is returned to the Matrix and consults the Oracle (Mary Alice). Gloria 
Foster, who played the Oracle in the first two films, died before she could film her 
parts in Revolutions. The new Oracle is part of the plot, which is jarring at first, but 
at least all the characters acknowledge this and act accordingly.
The bulk of The Matrix: Revolutions takes place in the real world, as a quartermillion Sentinels (machine soldiers) dig toward Zion, and the humans prepare to 
defend against the onslaught. Neo and Trinity leave, journeying by ship toward the 
heart of the machine city to try and stop the war. As the machines begin the battle 
for Zion, Neo makes a deal with the machines to end the war. His only task: stop 
former Agent Smith (Hugo Weaving), now a rogue program/virus multiplying 
himself throughout the Matrix, before it can destroy the Matrix and spill out into 
the machine mainframe, which would cause utter chaos.
The movie is, of course, visually impressive. While the visuals are not as bright 
as in Reloaded, the battle for Zion is spectacular. Dozens of 20-foot tall walking 
tanks spray the incoming swarms of Sentinels with endless streams of gunfire. 
Explosions, flames, and smoke fill the air of Zions dock, the site of the main bat
tle. The imagery is unforgettable, and contains some of the most memorable sci-fi 
battle footage of recent years. The other visually impressive sequence is the 
Superbrawl, a name the Wachowski brothers gave to the final confrontation 
between Smith and Neo  the fight that will decide the future of the Matrix. The 
fight rages for nearly 15 minutes from a city street, to the inside of a building, out 
into the air above the city, and finally into a ravaged crater as rain pours down in 
torrents and the black sky fills with massive bolts of lightning.
The Matrix franchise was always intended to make millions, but it started incon
spicuously in March 1999 with what seemed like an offbeat sci-fi film. The final 
film in the Matrix trilogy was released worldwide on November 5 in both standard 
and IMAX formats. The Matrix: Revolutions is one of the most anticipated movies 
of the year. This is more of a curse than a blessing.
The Matrix: Revolutions begins right where the second film, The Matrix: 
Reloaded, left off. The two films were shot together in Sydney, Australia, in one 
continuous period of nearly three years. The Wachowski brothers wrote and 
directed the film.
Most moviegoers are familiar with the story of the Matrix universe so far. 
Humans invented artificial intelligence, but after a war with the machines, we 
ended up enslaved as a power source. The Matrix is a software world streamed into 
our minds to keep us placated as our biothermal energy is harvested. But mankind 
has never liked being controlled, and a resistance force is fighting a guerilla war 
both in the Matrix and in the real world, defending the last human-controlled city 
of Zion.
The first Matrix film shows filmgoers the journey of Neo (Keanu Reeves) as he 
becomes the One and prepares to fulfill a prophecy to save mankind from the 
Matrix. The second film ([Reloaded) follows Neo as he continues his quest, and 
gives audiences a much greater understanding of the world of the film.
the most part; unfortunately, it also introduces many of its own questions that will 
probably go unanswered. The Wachowski Brothers, as well as the producer of the 
films, Joel Silver, have gone on record to say there will be no more Matrix films. 
They are planning an official videogame sequel coming sometime next year that 
may answer more questions, but for the general movie audience, this is a non
issue.
After seeing Reloaded, many were not impressed. The hardcore Matrix fans loved 
the philosophy and complex plotline, but many more casual moviegoers found it 
to be confusing and incomplete. Matrix fans will enjoy the movie for its addition to 
the plot and its philosophical value (which, as always, is much greater than it 
seems at first). Everybody will think the visuals and fight scenes are cool; the dif
ferences in opinion will come when people step back and look at how the film as a 
whole was put together; that is where every person in the theater will likely have 
a different take on things. The bottom line is, you will very likely have to try and 
like this movie. It is enjoyable, but as is the problem with many sequels, it simply 
couldnt live up to the hype.
p0us vtshTaob. vDullTeaDre
The ending leaves many questions unanswered, including several very large 
ones that could affect a persons view of the movie. The film felt rushed; many plot 
points were simply brought up and dealt with without going in depth and explain
ing the circumstances behind the situations. Revolutions was supposed to answer 
most, if not all, of the questions left after Reloaded. It delivers on this promise, forCourtesy of Warner Brothers
1illbox. 10 November 2003.1

---------------------------------------------------

CLASSIFIEDS
ARTS & EVENTS.
School of Drama Final Fridays Cabaret Series 
Presents "No Ones Gonna Harm You: The 
Songs of Stephen Sondheim" Friday, October 
31st at 11pm. Chosky Theatre. Tickets avail
able day of show at noon, School of Drama Box 
Office. 412.268.2407.
OPPORTUNITIES.
www.SpecklyDoo.com  The hottest new site 
offering an eclectic array of handmade gift 
items for you, your home, and your pampered 
pets! New items added constantly. Right now, 
we have beautiful cat-themed jewelry, unusual 
Halloween home decor items, summer purse 
clearance sale, and unique back-to-school 
purses.
Vending Route. 25 high traffic locations.
18,000.00 yearly income. Hurry, wont last. 
Cost $3500. 1.800.568.1392. www.vendingthatworks.com.
Make $$$ taking Online Surveys
Earn $10-$125 for Surveys Earn $25-$250 for
Focus Groups, www.cash4students.com/patar.
Want to make FAST money?
Get paid $3 - $10 for only 20 minutes. Sign 
up today to participate in this fun, easy, and 
quick word puzzle study. For times and infor
mation e-mail: ejcho@andrew.cmu.edu with 
Puzzle Study in the subject line.
Local test prep. Company seeking part time 
physics teachers. Excellent communications 
skills a must. Grad students preferred but lim
ited to. Call 412.687.4880 or e-mail 
info.pittsburgh@review.com.
Need an extra $36,000 a year? Vending route 
for sale. Cost $5000.00.
Help find missing children.
1.800.853.7155 or www.webdesignl99.com
HAIR MODELS NEEDED! Male and female. All 
hair types. Call 412.488.8951 ext. 201 for 
details and upcoming casting calls.
Seeking a ghost writer to place my thoughts 
into words for a Mystery Novel. $50.00 per 
chapter. 12 chapters: $600.00  15 chapters: 
$750.00. Please send resume to: 
Fifthave61@yahoo.com or fax to:
412.422.4329 ATTN: Mr. Walter Trent. 
Qualifications: Creativity and the enjoyment of 
writing.
**Work From Home*** Intl Company 
Expanding. Earn up to $500-$1500 PT/mo. 
$2000-$7500 FT/mo. Will train. Call:
1.888.304.0872. www.NewLifeWealth.com
PEER EDUCATORS WANTED
Peer Educators needed to present sexuality
education programs to teens. Good public
speaking skills desired. No experience neces
sary. Paid training. Flexible part-time hours. 
Must be high school graduate. Great for college 
students. Possible internship opportunities. 
For more information, please call
412.288.2130 ext. 176 and ask for Damion or 
send e-mail to fhcpeereducation@hotmail.com
MEDICAL.
Amazing Metabolism Breakthrough!
Lose 10 - 200 LBS!! Easy, quick, fast dramat
ic results. All Natural. Dr. Recommended. $$$ 
Guarantee.
1.888.738.2802 
www. NewLifeTrend. net
Talk Therapy Research Study for Depression 
and Anxiety Men and women, ages 18 to 60, 
who are suffering with symptoms of both 
depression and anxiety are needed to partici
pate in a talk therapy research study. For more 
details or to see if you qualify, please call the 
Depression Prevention Program at
412.624.4444. There are no costs associated 
with the study. All calls are confidential.
Completely healthy males ages 18-40 without 
medical problems and not taking any medica
tions needed for research study in the division 
of Pulmonary, Allergy and Critical Care 
Medicine at the University of Pittsburgh 
Medical Center. Must have no history of dia
betes, insomnia, smoking, or depression. Study 
will involve two 48-hour sessions in the sleep 
laboratory during the week. Total participation 
time will be approximately 4 weeks. No cost to 
participants; financial compensation provided. 
Call Heidi at 412.692.2880.
Depression
Is it a problem for you or someone you love? 
You're not alone. According to the National 
institute of Mental Health, during any one-year 
period, 18.8 million Americans  one in 10 
adults  experience depression. Andrea 
Fagiolini, MD, is conducting a research study at 
the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center to 
examine the effectiveness of an antidepressant 
medication for major depression. You or a loved 
one may qualify if you.-
* are age 18 to 60
* feel depressed and anxious
* are either antidepressant-free or taking an 
antidepressant that is not helping.
As part of the study, participants will undergo 
psychological assessments and receive medica
tion. The medication to be used in this study 
has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration for major depression. There is 
no cost for participating in the study. For more 
information, please call Traci Salopek today at
412.624.4444. All calls are confidential.
SPRING BREAK 2004! Travel with Beach Life 
Vacations! America's Best 
Student Tour Operator! Jamaica, Cancn, 
Acapulco, Bahamas, Florida. Sell rips, Earn
Cash, Travel Free! Hurry - Book Now!
1.800.733.6347
www. beachlifevacations. com
# 1 Spring Break Vacations!
Cancn, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas, Florida. 
Campus Reps Wanted! Free Meals & Parties! 
800-234-7007 
endlesssunrmertours.com
USA SPRING BREAK.com 
Cancn, Bahamas, Acapulco, Jamaica & More. 
Don't be fooled! Go with Quality & Experience!
28 years in business. Largest Student Tour 
Operator. (Division of USA Student Travel). Call 
Toll Free: 1.877.460.6077. Now also hiring 
Campus Reps. Earn 2 Free Trips for 15 
Travelers & $$
Sell Spring Break Trips! Guaranteed Best Buy 
1 free trip for every 10 paid OR ca$h starting 
with first booking. Exxtreme Party Packages! 
Protection of American Express Worldwide 
EXXTREME VACATIONS, INC 1.800.336.2260 
www.xxvacations.com
Earn 2 Free Trips for 15 Travelers & $$ Vending 
Route. 25 high traffic locations. 18,000.00 
yearly income. Hurry, wont last. Cost $3500.
1.800.568.1392 www.vendingthatworks.com
***ACT NOW! Book 11 people, get 12th trip 
free. Group discounts for 6+ www.springbreakdiscounts.com or 1.800.838.8202
Test your word skills, but more importantly, GET 
PAID! WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski & 
Beach Trips on sale now! 
www.Sunchase.com or call 1.800.SUNCHASE 
today!
Spring Break. 04 with Student City.com and 
Maxim Magazine! Get hooked up with Free 
trips, Cash and VIP Status as a Campus Rep! 
Choose from 15 of the hottest destinations. 
Book early for FREE MEALS, FREE DRINKS 
and 150% Lowest Price Guarantee! To reserve 
online or view our Photo Gallery, visit www.studentcity.com or call 1-888-SPRINGBREAK!
FOR RENT OR SALE.
Acura Integra 00 GS, 26k miles, red, 2dr 
coupe, 5spd, leather, CD, AC, sunroof. 
Excellent condition $13,200. Call 724-612- 
4403.
OHARA TOWNSHIP
Good first house in the Fox Chapel School 
District. Brick Cape Cod with 3 BR, 2 Baths. 
$160,000. For info send e-mail to manfredi@pitt.edu Awesome 2 Bedroom Townhouse 
Style. Newly Remodeled, Roof Top Deck, Quiet. 
$850.00 + Gas & Electric. Call
412.621.3028.
Luxury 2 bedroom one block to CMU. Beautiful, 
modern & spacious with vaulted ceilings. Fully 
equipped kitchen. Fenced yard with patio. 
Laundry, A/C. $1200/month includes gas, elec
TRAVEL.
& digital cable. Robb Real Estate Co.
412.682.7622 or rrec@telerama.com
FOR RENT: CMU Student Seeking CMU Female 
Roommate for Second Bedroom and Private 
Full Bath. Saxony Apartments 229 N. Craig 
Street. FURNISHED Apartment ONLY .5 miles 
from CMU. LAUNDRY and PARKING available. 
Shared Utilities, CABLE and INTERNET. 
(WATER PAID). 11 Month Lease for 
$500/month. Call: 520-370-1787. E-mail: 
tcpaz@hotmail. com
Squirrel Hill, 2nd floor duplex, 2 large rooms 
plus kitchen and bath, ideal for 2 students, 1 
block from bus line to university, $795, 
INCLUDES GAS AND ELECTRIC. Call
412.521.1308.
HOME FOR SALE BEECHVIEW. Home with 
inviting entry awaits you! Solid, spacious one 
floor, brick with character, level entry, near T, 8 
minutes to town, near greenway, 3 br, 1 ba, 
$55K 412.421.5659, jjune@pghmail.com
Forest Hills - Furnished room for rent - only 
$325.00. Call 412-371-2256
Office Space for rent on Fifth Avenue - 
$600/month, call 412-681-6830
Classified Rates 
All local ads are free at The 
Tartan's discretion
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 1017 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15289
 Classifieds must be paid in 
cash, check, or credit card 
before first run date
 Non-local ad rates:
1-20 words.......$10.00/wk
21-50 words.......S12.00/wk
51-100 words.....S15.00/wk
 Due 5 pm Thursday before 
publication
141illbox. 10 November 2003.

---------------------------------------------------

tMy2Mr2nK hewVnB Du P2wV 1..2n M.m L2.mndu 9f
ACROSS
iWhere to sip your 21 across
5The C in RC Cola
6Don't stress, yc4i can get your goods with great ^
7Don't call tbam groupies, the^ age 
9Sptikezmm for Syfcway11Tax 'Mite-off m not, eonfi parties donate to it
13,What ooo! kMs wear m Stie court
ISThis cash ofp helped clear ttee siro&e after the Rewiliita
isLabor Bay, Slack Friday and alter-Chrfeteiaa occasion
21Sumatra, Caramel Ifaodhiaia, and Peppermint ^
22:They probably -Mm your favorite radio station
2BThey mate your microwaves, fcaiiki pour batterieis, and iighrt 
tip |our LCDs
26Share these shares with partners
28Breakfast of champions, otjunpians, and even you
30Suppfr/ and _
31Without ads, you'd end up begging for morse;/ like iKiia TV 
neiMffiffc
32The purest thing to buy in a tattle
DOWN
i(jmimi&rsM Ormimedia mogul
2Barbies boy toy
3Tills Queen has great Blizzards
4II cant buy you ksve, but it'll get you those: new
Sit DBS
iSnap and Pops breakfast buddy
8h jungle to see sights* or a site: to bur/ books10CorpcjrMlQfiS: provide goods, services* and these
12To be the antithesis of a corporate conglomerate
14Tlie East's emerging capitalist country
16Sofna; pe-spfe only watch this for the commercials
17Polling back prices
laHew (he West was capitalized
i#Stepahfolics magazine
2DA breakfast to esl under the: go Idea arches
21Grocery strapping is on her list of things to do
23Would ju like paper or.. J
248uy now par/ later!
27Hafofeco's riijmfear m&
mTtiis miMwtal number is fwo-ttiiwte consumer spending
6Vol umme9o 8,Isl1,0
pillbox, 10 November 2003.

---------------------------------------------------

O ***" '*l
U
B na .a 
*s t- S .s 
"If Sf i 
i if 11
r~rz
 &e^v
- m "S M-a -dr P*Su  *T S,j "i
H (U* O 1*2  
^ J I
il| J-Sll 
-S 85 3
-g 4  J  s -*-* ; 1|
-81 Jl g
sS-S 5 So *1 ~s 3
^ s 1 J - Ss g - *8
Jl
8* :I -I ** i g ^  ** 3
i ~
*fi rj
ej_ 8>s&
3 . =^ S & a
1J1J I ;l
lllfl J g * ' 8 3? & ^-i _t Z  8 st
|t-l |"2 I
^ I < 's 3p H
 s 2 5- S J jg a -a ff i
^ 3 -p g J* **S H" S * y *-*
Jl yis
-S g o * .ss -*> fe'K _S *-* _2 - G  >-: ', * %> oa i s I i U
5I il-i
15 t - -*9- -> &
Sills II
-g* 2 P*1  S
-3
S -1-4 3 __ _
*  O fli ci < -U5>~,. <,..,.^ *
| s J "S a  j; 1 -I I f 21 I J
-f

---------------------------------------------------

!
1
2 
w.
* 
t.s-1
<r>
Jails
1
>4
c
*
3K
- ^ V Vs -&_* fr 's
*3 <6^
1
<?=
I
w1II.,th ar n,gmN.mv brr23

---------------------------------------------------

by Scott Adams
i&omEN&ac D2rrUO ONE INVITO YOU 
TO THOSE CONPEREfCE CALLS.
, UHAT IF I Vi. 
LREABY 
FINISHED THE 
NEW6- _ 
HL PAIW
M*LYf THERE KAVE 
Qtf N COMPLAINTS THAT 
YOU WE CONFERENCE 
CALLS FRQtt, THE HEN' 
ROOK,
111 B TOO BUSY TO 
WOVE ANYtMHiG.BUT 
AT LEAST WE HAVE A 
SYSTEM.
<HUPfRWMteX 
iVWG A FEW IWO* 
SYtCRASIES.BUT 
ITS ONLY BECAUSE
i care 0 much
A&OVt Tf WORK,
tTS T?fAN&IK.
NICE TRY-Ml PURCHASE MUM WJ&T m APPROVED BPf
ME.
AND ALL WE NEED IS 
ONE PERSON TO FORGET 
TO AIL IN THE RE SATE 
FmmI WEUL TWCiTt^ 4* THE LA2TY 
RICH,
ydeyrd ,2rr k2.VH 28n
A. GREAT BARGAIN WHS* 
IN rACt fTt. 3U&T A . 
HUGE mCONVEMiENCE.
DOHT SELL YOUR NEW 
^RQCiUGTFOR *2=!<
Offer it at .sow? 
uwm h ReSAte of
.WHtWO.
UJH1CH, BY THE \*m< 
YOU'RE NOT. SO DONT 
TRY TO MAKE DIRECT 
EYE CONTACT.
YOU COUtO Wfe.fe UP TO 
ANY VICE PRESIDENTS 
OmfcCE AND TALK TO 
HIS SECRETARY AS 
If YOU UHI Mi 
EQUAL.
WS'RE MOT LEVEL 
CONSCIOUS* HERE
IF I SO TO 
m CUBICLE, 
CAN YOU 
HALLUCI
NATE THAT 
mHERE?
YOUR OOCUr^HT IS 
NOkl SAYING m TO THE 
BOTTOM, OF THE PILE.
I CAN T DO ANY M0RI yORR ON HY yce'dw 
IPlFL joI UF!1 joIh 
FP*IlH iIl joIh1 
loo iIUjH
THERE'S NO POLITE 
WRY TO SAY THIS!
&JL1. youre a
^TTLEf*EC*.
rn HAVING PROBLEM
at mm, so in m
TAKING IT 05JT OH YOU 
TODAY,
ILL BEGIN BY 
HALLUCINATING 
THAT YOU SAID 
SOMETHING BAD. 
THEN ILL YELL AT 
YOU PQR SAYING IT.
i An 
M OT A 
SADISTIC
.s before swine
by Stephan Fastis
ywM ..qwf
k \a (sBE^iir
$W1
immtmimwmh
IMS Of W, OiSAS^ AW 
^ .. } I
iwramAmmmmmn
An^ to flic HewttafSWSfif pi
njinfirwfiiil -m fmtii Imm 
WbttiX&Nm &&/
I Wtt I mil igSjOlUBORL
UOWivmt iswe y<TH ihc mm I 
eftigcMi#&Y mm I 
MBmMD IMC Ufi J
SINS, *1! ISAltf.WTsmtmkwsitmM # vmmm* j
im$m% Y wwAt'm 
Mtwwm \ LC^rrya
tittHSCfeCT i^ mmi immmm
r I!. A .^j~..^ ||. in | || ^^"ll II III I Mill III I |l|| || I v'^
w 1i ,n' tts&w
[$wwiricaswT 
 inmiiNiiLfiiBii*
' ffiE> tSCteKikW Trt&ifPiV
I tiftflfof temwx
v*i trwom 
M IM W^JidWWWifi>0WVlftOltai<0i*TQ
viY ysc^im' 
s mmu tom. A w^wce
SsHMlWilRi
mt mtmt m&rt'm mi mum tm&
~^Z_..(i mm
y2rrDeJf C/ PeEdKDdc b//Sf17

---------------------------------------------------

Comickaze:
The web comic takeover
Every Sunday during the summer, its the same rou
tine: I brush my teeth, I shower, and I read the 
Sunday funnies over breakfast.
However, when I am at school, Im too busy to 
reach for the Trib or the Gazette. What is a comic 
fan to do? Fortunately, the Internet has a solution 
 web comics!
Previously dismissed as poorly produced and ama
teur trash, todays web comics rival even the most 
revered of print comics.
Web comics are an entirely different medium that is 
infinitely more flexible than their pulpy counter
part. They may be animated with Flash, instantly 
updated, and are not subject to the censorship of 
big business. To some, the best part of web comics 
is that authors listen to reader feedback.
The low cost of entry into the marketplace and the 
significant exposure to be had have spurred many 
artists into web comics. Onstad, Frazer, and Stevens 
all use image editing programs like Adobe 
Photoshop and Illustrator in order to create their 
strips. Web hosting fees are at an all-time low. The 
hard part is attracting an audience.
Once a cartoonist captures an audience, they can 
hawk t-shirts, print collections, and countless other 
items. Web comics are also a great open portfolio 
for artists.
J.D. Illiad Frazers User Friendly is one of those 
comics that has attracted a cult following. The 
comic is based around fictional ISP Columbia 
Internet and follows the misadventures of the IT 
staff: seedy marketing guru Stef, a living dust ball 
named Dust Puppy, and Erwin, the sentient AI.
User Friendly is the Dilbert of the Internet. The
comic itself is very UNIX-centric and attracts a large 
following of IT workers and Linux / UNIX zealots. 
The subject matter stays up to date and always 
pokes fun at geek culture and computing trends.
Frazer has parodied the Lord of the Rings, Star Wars, 
and Star Trek in his panels. Nothing is safe from 
becoming fodder for User Friendly.
User Friendly was one of the first comics that start
ed on the Internet to make it to print. While uncom
mon five years ago, many popular web comics now 
eventually publish a print collection. Merchandising 
is one of the few ways, besides advertising, that 
artists can keep their comics free to the public. 
Frazer has also pulled out all the stops and markets 
a full line of User Friendly merchandise.
If dry cubicle humor is not your bottle of gin, then 
check out Chris Onstads Achewood. Achewoods 
characters are live stuffed animals. More specifical
ly, the cast is comprised of Java-programming cats 
and booze-swilling tigers. It is not unfamiliar to see 
Ray Smuckles, a thong-wearing cat, driving an 
Escalade and drinking martinis. Borrowing heavily 
from pop culture and the Bartenders Handbook, 
Achewood blends barroom humor and amazing sto
rytelling.
Achewood is the epitome of reader-author commu
nication-driven comics. Fans constantly post their 
interpretations and criticisms of each strip on the 
Achewood message board.
Onstad often has to change strips if a reader discov
ers an inconsistency or if there is an outcry over the 
use of a word or two. He also leaves notes on his 
site when he is unable to update strips until the 
evening or when there is news for readers.
RED ROBOT
Photo Courtesy of dieselsweeties.com
A snapshot of the Diesel Sweeties.
Achewood pulls no punches when it comes to lan
guage and subject matter. The comic has its share of 
gay jokes, four-letter words, violence, and pointless 
plotlines. The Internet gives Achewood and similar 
comics complete freedom. No features syndicate 
would ever allow such freedom to its cartoonists. 
Achewood does not undergo a copy editing or pre
approval process. It is entirely artist-run and artistpublished.
Richard R Stevens Diesel Sweeties is drawn entire
ly in pixilated form, giving it a retro feel. It is 
almost as if you are watching a movie on a 
Commodore 64 or playing an Atari 2600 game. 
However, do not let the simplicity of the strip fool 
you. The characters are complex and deranged. If 
you hate indie rockers but love porn stars and 
robots, this is the comic for you!
Diesel Sweeties serves up a tepid plate of hipster 
bashing and robots. It does not take itself very seri
ously and dispenses witty one-liners and scatologi
cal jokes by the bagful. 'Although repetitive at 
times, The comic is always upbeat and outrageously 
inappropriate. Roles are seemingly reversed in the 
Diesel Sweeties world. Women have the upper hand 
and control sex, while the men seem weak and pas
sive. Robots are free to maim humans or mate with 
them. The Diesel Sweeties world is an alternate uni
verse of potty humor and porn.
Still looking for your favorite Sunday funnies?
Head over to www.comics.com to get your daily fix. 
Or, check out www.userfriendly.org, 
www.achewood.com, and www.dieselsweeties.com.
3ruc v1iu9. 5E9aog phaDEe
This is just a slice of the Achewood cast.
1illbox. 10 November 2003.

---------------------------------------------------

MONDAY 10.
Green Design Lecture. School of Architecture. Bill Reed on 
Regenerative Design. Breed Hall, Margaret Morrison. 
5:30 pm. Free. 412.268.1541.
Robotics Rebirth, Abstract. Dr. Joseph Engelberger. 2 pm, 
3305 Newell-Simon Hall.
Scaling-out and Server Blades  The New Data Center 
Architectures, Abstract. Satish Gupta, vice president of 
eServer xSeries and I ntel I Station Development, IBM 
Corporation. 4 pm, 5409 Wean Hall. Refreshments: 3:30 
pm.
TUESDAY 11.
OUTSpoken Discussion  Racial Minorities within the 
GLBT community. 5 pm. West Wing TV Room. 
Refreshments will be served.
Glass breaking. 1:00pm. Sponsored by Hillel JUC. 
Includes readings of the Nuremberg laws and personal 
testimonies of survivors from KristalInacht.
Carnegie Mellon School of Design Lecture Series. Chaz 
Maviyane-Davies, designer and filmmaker, Zimbabwe 
visiting associate professor of design, Massachusetts 
College of Art. Kresge Recital Hall. 7 pm. Free. 
412.268.2828.
Green Design Lecture. School of Architecture. Michael 
Pulaski on Design for Deconstruction. Breed Hall, 
Margaret Morrison, 5:30 pm. Free. 412.268.1541.
Condensed Matter Lunchtime Seminar. Arieh Ben-Naim, 
Hebrew University Jerusalem. Pedagogical Issues 
Associated with Entropy of Mixing and Entropy of 
Assimilation. 12 pm, 216 Allen Hall, University of 
Pittsburgh.
WEDNESDAY 12.
Green Design Lecture. School of Architecture. Alexis 
Karolides. Biomimicry for the Building Industry. 
Breed Hall, Margaret Morrison. 5:30 pm. Free. 
412.268.1541.
Mechanics of starting a small business. Workshop. 
7:30 am. Room 1M56, Wesley Posvar Hall, 
University of Pittsburgh. 412.648.1542.
THURSDAY 13.
Murder Mystery Dinner Theater  Murder By Magic.
Spaghetti Warehouse Mystery Dinner Theater. 6:45 pm. 
$27.25 (includes dinner, show, tax, and gratuities). 
724.348.8110. www.mccafferymysteries.com.
School of Art Lecture Series. Masaki Fujihata, interactive 
electronic artist. McConomy Auditorium, University 
Center. 5 pm. Free. 412.268.2409.
What Color Is Your Terror? Pittsburgh Playback Theatre. 
Audience-driven improv. Student and senior citizen 
Tickets $6.00, regular price $12.00.
FRIDAY 14.
Healthy living seminar. Rauh & Wells Studios in the 
Purnell Center. 3:30-5:30 pm.
The Frame art. Laura Warne and Jairan Sadeghi. 5200 
Forbes Ave. Opening: 7-9 pm. Hours: Friday - Tuesday, 
12-5 pm. Free. 412.268.2081.
Carnegie Mellon Philharmonic. Juan Pablo Izquierdo, 
music director. Carnegie Music Hall. 8 pm. $5, free for 
students. 412.268.2383.
Anti-FTAA Mass March and Rally for Global Justice. 1 pm rally in 
Mellon Square. 3 pm march through downtown. 
www.thomasmertoncenter.org/ftaa. 412.361.3022.
Junior recital. Charles Szoka-Valladares, guitar. Kresge Recital 
Hall, CFA. 5 pm. Free. 412.268.2383.
Flying Dutchman Opera Performance. 7:30 pm  12 am.
Tickets went on sale October 27 at the UC Student Info Desk. 
412.268.8704. Benedum Center.
Battle of The Bands. 4000 University Drive, McKeesport, PA 
15132. wmkppsu@hotmail.com. http://www.wmkp.com.
Lecture: Douglas Garofalos Chicago Works. 4-5 pm. Carnegie 
Museum of Art. 412.622.3172.
SUNDAY 16.
Faculty/Student Pi Kappa Lamda recital. Kresge Recital 
Hall. 7 pm. Free. 412-268-2383.
Zippo Hot Tour. Music. 8 pm. Rosebud Cafe. 1650 
Smallman Street. 412.261.2232. $5.
http://www.Zippo.com.
ONGOING
Spunk  theatre. Helen Wayne Rauh Studio Theater in the 
Purnell Center. Tickets available at the box office. Show 
begins Monday, November 20.
Thistle senior portraits. University Center. Beginning today. 
Sign up online to have your portrait taken: 
http://thistieworkl.pc.cc.cmu.edu/Portraits?UserName=cel 
anie@andrew.cmu.edu&Password=3qrw7C5i
UPMC SportsWorks. UPMC SportsWorks Building at 
Carnegie Science Center. Through March 23, 2005. For 
more info, e-mail chapmank@csc.clpgh.org.
Heinz 57. Senator John Heinz Pittsburgh Regional History 
Center. 10 am to 5 pm. $6 adult, $4.50 seniors, $3 chil
dren 6-18, free children under 6 and members. Through 
December 31, 2005. For more info, e-mail hswp@hswp.org.
Points in Time: Building a Life in Western PA 1750-Today.
Senator John Heinz Pittsburgh Regional History Center. 10 
am to 5 pm. $6 adult, $4.50 seniors, $3 children 6-18, 
free children under 6 and members. Through December 31,
2005. For more info, e-mail hswp@hswp.org.
Shantytown  The Ed Salamony Photographs. Photo 
Antiquities Museum of Photographic History. 10 am to 4 
pm. $6.50 adults, $5 students, Thursdays free. Through 
December 31. For more info, e-mail donna@photoantiquities.org.
Historic Tour of Clayton. Frick Art and Historical Center. 
General admission, $10; seniors, $8; students, $8. 
Through January 31, 2004.
PittsburghHipHop.coms Open Mic and Party every Sunday.
The Warehouse (2835 Smallman Street, Strip District). 6 
to 10 pm. $10, $5 with flyer. Through November 23. For 
more information, e-mail openmic@pittsburghhiphop.com.
SATURDAY 15.VOX 
POPULI.
THE OFFICIAL VOICE 
OF THE OFFICIAL VOICE.
SUBMIT TO VOX POPULI.
send your word junk to 
tartan@andrew. emu. edu
What
you've
never
seen a
swimming
granola
bar?.
V**
x\
W
% % 
il7G
1
'0UT8II 
pi3q 13 
sSoqaSpaq 
S8A1S 
UI8J0f
non 
Very hot, 
like chicken.
Whats
up,
Columbine?
A
e
Whafy ut fyOYbnas b&,
Herv?
We'tie (fMwf QGSwie<j4e> a
AAMSllie!
a>
xnI
 -42 ^ I can read just fine.
 bJD M a 03 ^  * %
*e.
yot
c* 
?o a
1illbox. 10 November 2003.

---------------------------------------------------

Jeff Cullers/Photo Editor
Glamour girls: Glamour Struggles," by Charles 
Schneider, is part of his Collage Work show in the UC 
Gallery on the first floor of the University Center.
